NO. 322-744263 -23 
IN THE 322ND DISTRICT COURT OF TARRANT 
COUNTY, TEXAS  
 
 
TO THE HONORABLE JUDGE OF SAID COURT:  
Respondent Charles Dustin Myers files this motion to designate 
responsible third parties  pursuant to Rule 39 (a)(1) of the Texas Rules of 
Civil Procedure  and in support thereof, would respectfully show the Court 
the following:  
I. PARTIES  
1. Petitioner : Morgan Michelle Myers, residing at 6641 Anne Court, 
Watauga, Texas 76148.  Morgan Michelle Myers ,  
  
  
Petitioner,   
  
v. MOTION FOR JOINDER OF 
PERSONS NEEDED FOR JUST 
ADJUDICATION  
  
  
Charles Dustin Myers,   
  
Respondent   
  
2024 -06-23  
DKT-215:001

2. Respondent: Charles Dustin Myers, residing at 6641 Anne Court, 
Watauga, Texas 76148.1 
II. DESIGNATED THIRD PARTIES  
3. Pursuant to Tex. R. Civ. P . § 39(c) , Respondent names the following 
additional parties : 
a. Daniel Kenneth Branthoover  , whose last known address is 3100 
Copan Ct, Yukon, OK 73099.  
b. Margie Evonne Wilson, who  resides at 664 0 Anne Court, 
Watauga, TX 76148.  
c. The parties above have not yet been joine d into this suit due to 
all important issues related being ruled on prematurely pri or to 
any evidentiary hearing, which didn’ t occur until March 14th, 
2024, nearly three mo nths after the divorce was filed by the 
Petitioner  – and where a court record was  not provide d as 
mandated by Tex. Fam. Code  § 105.003 . (A record shall be made 
as in civil cases generally unless waived by the parties with the consent of the court ). Respondent also has an un- answered  no-
evidence summary judgement that is a re iteration  of the claims 
made herein, which was judicially acknowledged on March 14
th, 
2024, over 90 days ago by Judge Kaitcer . 
 
1 Respondent was ordered to vacate his residency and place of business on January 
16th, 2024, by District Judge James Munford , on January 22nd, 2024, by Associate 
Judge Jeffrey Kaitcer, and was locked out by the Petitioner on March 6th, 2024.  
DKT-215:002

d. The above-mentioned cause is currently pending on appeal in the 
Supreme Court of Texas regarding the interlocutory orders 
rendered on March 26th, 2024 . Pursuant to the Texas  Family 
Code, this court has the ability on its ’ own motion  after noti ce 
and hearing to grant temporary orders for the preservation of 
property during the appeal.  Id § 6.709.  
III. FACTS  
 
4. On December 13th, 2024, Morgan Michelle Myers opened up a bank 
account in her own name .  
5. On the evening of December 13th, 2024, Morgan Michelle Myers 
had a meeting with Margie Evonne Wilson at her residency at  
approximately 9:55PM  where they had a four -hour long private 
discussion  relating to divorce matters . 
6. On December 1 4th, 2024,  Morgan Michelle Myers requested an ex -
parte temporary order of protection from this Court, which was denied.  
7. On December 15
th, 2023, Charles Dustin Myers was contacted by 
Daniel Kenneth Branthoover, now Morgan’s stepfather , where he 
stated  his intention to  “help with the divorce” and that it would be “a 
good move” to allow  Morgan Michelle Myers and the Children to 
visit his residency in Y ukon, Oklahom a over the weekend of 
December 15th, 2024.   
DKT-215:003

8. Immediately following this phone call, Mr. Branthoover advised 
Morgan to withdraw all of the available joint finances into her own personal account that she had just opened on December 13
th, 2023, 
which amounted to $1,576.  
9. Respondent timely requested that the money be put back after 
discovering the joint bank account was overdrawn $-800 on 
December 16th,  2023,  at approximately 3:54P.M., stating that the 
money was needed for bills and the Children’s Christmas gifts.  
10. At 8:23 P.M. CST on December 16th, 2023, Mr. Branthoover replied 
stating that the money was hers, and that he would be helping Morgan file the divorce paperwork while she and the Children were at his residency  that weekend . 
11. On December 17
th, 2024, at approximately 11:00 A.M. CST, Margie 
Evonne Wilson served Charles with an eviction notice  by hand 
delivery, where the grounds for eviction were cited as follows:  
a. Divorce 
b. Protective order filed.  
c. He must leave. Her and the Children may stay.  
12. On the evening of December 17th, 2023, Morgan returned to the 
family home with a can of pepper spray indicating a narrative for protection. She also acquired a  second phone, given to her by Daniel 
Branthoover while visiting his residency.  
13. On December 18
th, 2023, Morgan filed for divorce . 
DKT-215:004

14. On December 19th, 2023, Charles was contacted once again by Mr. 
Branthoover, who claimed to be Morgan’s legal representative, and 
instructed Charles to not contact ‘his client’ regarding the divorce suit 
15. On December 22
nd, 2023, Morgan filed for a standard order of 
protection. 
16. On December 27th, 2023, Charles was served with the Original 
Petition for Divorce, and the Eviction. 
17. On December 28th, 2023, Charles was served the Original Petition 
for divorce.  
18. Between the dates of December 29th, 2023, and January 16th, 2024, 
the Respondent cohabitated with the Petitioner,  where the Children 
were left in the Respondent ’s care while she worked her part -time 
job, which preserved the status quo of the minor children of this 
case.  
19. At the show cause hearing on January 16th, 2024, despite denying 
the initial emergency protective order sought on December 14th by 
Morgan, Judge James Munford , on his own motion, consolidated the 
case with the divorce and granted a continuance despite ordering the 
Respondent out of his residency, business, and Children’ s lives . 
20. This constitutional violation from the onset of the case combined 
with the fraudulent nature of the Petitioner ’s pleadings, and the 
conspirat orial and malicious intent fueling them has left the 
DKT-215:005

Respondent without any legal justification  for the decisions rendered 
in this case , and the children have been left with a parent who is 
unable to provide for them emotionally, financially, and as evidence 
will show – has introduced chaos into their lives . 
21. On June 2nd, 2024, the Respondent was contacted by Margie Evonne 
Wilson who raised concerns about the children, Morgan’ s behavior, 
and stated she “ could not afford for the m to live there much longer 
due to no rent being paid. ” 
22. On June 20th, 2024, Respondent reached out to Daniel Branthoover 
after receiving a friend request from him on social media, expressing 
concern over the detrimental impact of Daniel’s actions on the welfare of the minor children involved in this case. Respondent explained how Daniel’s actions had directly undermined the financial and emotional stability of the children, both currently and in the foreseeable future. In response, Daniel attempted to justify his behavior and further revealed his malicious intent by stating that he  
had been "thoroughly enjoying" seeing the Respondent’s attempts for relief being denied.  
23. During the pendency of the case  - Morgan Michelle Myers has 
moved additional family members into the fa mily residence,  has 
introduc ed a new male figure into the children ’s lives on an ongoing 
basis, works  less hours than when the orders were rendered, and has 
DKT-215:006

left the children in the  sole custody of the male individual on at least 
one occasion . 
IV.  LEGAL BASIS FOR DESIGNATION  
24. Pursuant to Rule 39 (a)(1)  of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure, “[a] 
person who is subject to service of process shall be joined as a party 
in the action if  in [their]  absence complete relief cannot be accorded 
among those already parties …” Id. The Respondent  and the marital 
estate have been undergoing substantial and ongoing harm due to the 
collective actions of Morgan, Mr. Branthoover, and Margie , and the 
best interests of the children have been disregarded entirely due to the deceptive nature of her  pleadings.
2 Their addition to the case is 
necessary  so this court will have jurisdiction for the relief being 
sought by the Respondent.  
25. Morgan Michelle Myers, Daniel Kenneth Branthoover, and Margie Evonne Wilson acted in concert with malicious intent with the common goal of removing the Respondent  from the family 
residence by fil ling a fraudulent divorce petition, protective order, 
and eviction notice during the weekend of December 15
th, 2023, to 
create a false narrative of protection to present to this Court.  All 
claims herein are substantiated with text message evidence. 
 
2 Attached hereto is the Respondent ’s income whic h has significantly dropped and 
is continuously dropping without a stable residency to perform h is normal 
occupation which the Children in this case, Margie Evonne Wilson, and Morgan 
Michelle Myers all rely on.  
DKT-215:007

26. Despite raising the  exact facts mentioned above in the very first 
pleading submitted to this court, which was a motion to consolidate, 
which   has been attached hereto for the court’s reference – it was 
ignored outright and was not taken into consideration in any of the temporary orders rendered in this case.  
27. Due to Dan iel’s involvement and the fraudulent nature of the 
Original Petition for Divorce – no hearing regarding custody 
determinations should have  been  held until Tex. Fam. Code § 
6.405(b) were to be satisfied, which requires : 
(b) The petitioner shall attach to the petition a copy of each order 
described by Subsection (a)(1) in which a party to the suit or the child of a 
party to the suit was the applicant or victim of the conduct alleged in the 
application or order and the other party was the respondent or defendant of 
an action regarding the conduct alleged in the application or order without 
regard to the date of the order.  If a copy of the order is not available at the 
time of filing, the petition must state  that a copy of the order will be filed 
with the court before any hearing.  – Id (emphasis added)  
 
Despite this statutory requirement, two hearings were held  which resulted 
in Charles’ unjust removal from his home, his business, and Children’s 
lives.  Despite invoking this rule at the March 14th, 2024 hearing – it was 
sustained on objection for relevance – with no court reporter to make an 
appeal.  
 
28. Due to the fatal procedural errors committed in this case, the 
fraudulent nature that they were filed, the third party influence, the 
malicious intent behind them, the ongoing damage caused, the lack of discovery, and the disregard for the best interests of the children, this Court has an obligation to re -visit the merits of this case  by 
DKT-215:008

enjoining the above named parties into the suit so that the facts can 
be before this court for the first time in nearly seven months of litigation.  
V . CIVIL CONSPIRACY  AND FRAUD  
29. To prove civil conspiracy, the plaintiff must show the following elements: (1) two or more persons; (2) an object to be accomplished; (3) a meeting of the minds on the object to be accomplished; (4) one or more unlawful, overt acts; and (5) damages as the proximate result. Triplex Communications, Inc. d/b/a Radio Station KZZB -95 
FM v. Riley , 900 S.W.2d 716, 719 (Tex.1995); Massey v. Armco 
Steel Co ., 652 S.W.2d 932, 934 (Tex.1983) ; Bernstein v. Portland 
Sav. & Loan Ass'n., 850 S.W.2d 694, 706 (Tex.App. --Corp us Christi 
1993, writ denied).  Respondent asserts that the record proves civil 
conspiracy on its’ face as text evidence and other relevant materials 
have already been submitted with the clerk of this Court, but nonetheless will be shown to the clear and convincing standard of evidence following discovery .  
VI. INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL 
DISTRESS  
30. A party claiming intentional infliction of emotional distress must prove:   
DKT-215:009

(1) the defendant acted intentionally or recklessly; (2) the defendant's 
conduct was extreme and outrageous; (3) the conduct caused the 
claimant emotional distress; and (4) the emotional distress was severe. 
Tiller v. McLure , 121 S.W.3d 709, 713 (Tex. 2003) (per curiam); 
Twyman v. Twyman, 855 S.W.2d 619, 621 (Tex. 1993).  
 
All four elements of this cause of action have been satisfied here. The actions by each named party herein resulted in the loss of the Respondent’s custodial rights, business, and property interests, and were initiated the weekend before Christmas void any legal basis for doing so. Respondent asserts that any reasonable finder of fact would conclude that the actions taken by the named parties are "so 
outrageous in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized society." H offman- La Roche, Inc. v. 
Zeltwanger , 144 S.W.3d 438, 445 (Tex. 2004); see also Creditwatch, 
Inc. v. Jackson , 157 S.W.3d 814, 817 -18 (Tex. 2005).  
VII. CRIMINAL CONDUCT  
31. The admitted  actions of Daniel Kenneth Branthoover and Morgan 
Michelle Myers  have violated criminal statutes  under Texas law  and 
have undermined this State’s interest in protecting the best interests of the Children by deceiving this Court . The specific criminal 
violations include:  
DKT-215:010

a. Daniel Kenneth Branthoover has impersonated a public 
servant by presenting himself as an attorney and performed  
legal acts without a license  such as requesting discovery, 
advising Morgan Michelle Myers to t ransfer the available 
funds in the marital estate to herself, directly influenced the pleadings in this case , and has caused significant and 
ongoing harm on the Children and the Respondent in this case.  “A person commits an offense if they impersonate a 
public servant with intent to induce another to submit to their pretended official authority or to rely on their pretended official acts. This offense is a felony of the third degree.” Texas Penal Code  § 37.11.  
b. Morgan Michelle Myers knowingly and willingly filed fraudulent divorce paperwork under the advice of Daniel 
Branthoover “with intent to deceive and with knowledge of 
the statement's meaning” when claiming an active order of protection existed against the Respondent for the purpose of 
acquiring property  as well as when filing for a protective 
order to achieve the same goal. Texas Penal Code § 32.32(b) . 
The goal was to gain an advantage in the divorce suit by leveraging knowingly false statements of family vio lence 
and by creating a false narrative of protection.  An affidavit of 
inability to pay w as claimed despite both Daniel and Morgan 
DKT-215:011

admitting via text evidence that M organ had transferred 
money to herself just three days prior on December 15th, 
2024. 
c. Both Morgan Michelle Myers and Daniel Kenneth 
Branthoover knowingly and willingly committed acts of perjury. The perjury occurred when they conspired to transfer joint finances to Morgan through Daniel’s PayPal account  and immediately  following this act  proceeded to  file 
for divorce swearing an affidavit of inability to pay costs  and 
that an active order of protection existed against the Respondent . This affidavit was made under oath with the 
intent to deceive the court regarding her financial status , a 
clear violation of Texas Penal Code § 37.02(a)(1).  
VIII. CONCLUSION  
32. The actions taken by Morgan Michelle Myers and Daniel Kenneth Branthoover are not only legally reprehensible but also morally indefensible. Their calculated scheme to remove the Respondent , a 
dedicated stay -at-home father, from the lives of his children has 
caused significant emotional and financial harm. By conspiring to fraudulently transfer joint finances, filing a deceitful affidavit of inability to pay costs, and manipulating legal pro cesses through 
perjury and impersonation, they have engaged in a toxic and egregious civil conspiracy , committed fraud, and destabilized the 
DKT-215:012

lives of the minor children of this case for the sole benefit of 
Morgan Michelle Myers.  
33. The Respondent has been the primary caregiver for his children, providing them with emotional support and stability. The deliberate efforts of Morgan and Daniel to sever this vital relationship have disrupted the children's lives, depriving them of the love and care they rely on. This malicious intent to manipulate the court and inflict 
harm on Charles and his children cannot be overlooked.  
34. While Margie Evonne Wilson's actions contributed to the harm caused, it is important to acknowledge that the Respondent does not believe her intent was driven by malice. The Respondent believes 
Margie was manipulated and placed in a difficult position by both Morgan and Daniel. Her inclusion into the case is necessary for the relief being sought regarding the preservation of the property.  
35. Given the severity of these actions, it is imperative that this Court take decisive action. The Respondent respectfully requests that the 
Court grant the relief sought, enjoin the responsible third parties, and if deemed necessary - forward the information regarding the  
criminal violations to the appropriate state prosecutors for further investigation . The well -being of the children and the integrity of the 
legal system demand nothing less.  
36. While Morgan Michelle Myers has committed criminal offenses in  
this State, the Respondent would request this court not pursue 
DKT-215:013

criminal charges against her as it would not serve the best interests 
of the Children.  
XI. PRAYER AND RELIEF  
29. Respondent requests the following relief:  
1. Grant a temporary restraining order preventing Daniel Kenneth 
Branthoover from being in the presence of  the Respondent’s 
children  while the case is pending.  
2. Require by order of this court  that Daniel Kenneth Branthoover 
pay monetary and punitive damages for his fraudulent influence in these proceedings  by order of the court, which includes hotel 
bills, gas, tolls, and any punitive damages the court finds 
necessary  to deter these actions in the future.  
3. Grant the Respondent a  temporary injunction for the  
preservation of the property  while this case is pending  to 
preserve the status quo for the Children.  
4. An order requiring Morgan Michelle Myers to pay  all of 
Respondent’s attorney’s fees incurred from the retainment of 
Daniel Bacalis , amounting to $3,000. 
5. Issue a  temporary restraining order against Margie Evonne 
Wilson to prevent any further harassment and to  preserve the 
status quo of the Children during the pendency of the transitionary period  for no less than eight months  by co ntinuing 
DKT-215:014

to provide a stable li ving environment for the Children in this 
case. 
6. Require that Morgan Michelle Myers, Daniel Branthoover, and 
Margie Evonne Wilson complete the Children in the Middle 
parent ing course .3  
7. By order of this court - require that a monthly status report be 
provided by Charles Dustin Myers , Morgan Michelle Myers, and 
Margie Evonne Wilson  on behalf of the Children. 
8. Grant a trial by jury on the merits of this case in lieu of any findings of fact.  
WHEREFORE  PREMISES CONSIDERED, Respondent prays that 
this Court grant the relief requested herein and such other and further relief to which Respondent may be justly entitled.  The State ’s mandated 
requirement that the children ’s best interest  shall always be the primary 
consideration of all decisions made  
 Respectfully submitted,  
/s/ Charles Dustin Myer s
  
       Charles Dustin Myers  
       6641 Anne Court,  
                  Watauga, TX 76148  
                  Chuckdustin12@gmail.com  
       817-507-6562 
  
 
 
3 Morgan M ichelle Myers was already previously ordered by this court to complete this 
course by May 1st, 2024, which she failed to do.  
DKT-215:015