NO. 322- 744263- 23 
 
IN THE 233RD DISTRICT COURT OF TARRANT COUNTY , TEXAS  
 
 
TO THE HONORABLE COURT:  
 
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, Re spondent in the above filed case, files this  
 
Request  for Declaratory Judgement, and in support thereof shows the following:  
I. STATEMENT OF FACTS  
 
1. Petitioner , representing himself pro- se, removed cause number  322-744263 -23 to the  
Northern District of Texas on December 6, 2024.  
2. The case was remanded on December 8, 2024, for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.  
3. Rule 237a of the Texas Rules of C ivil Procedure states : 
“When any cause is removed to the Federal Court and is afterwards remanded to the state 
court, the plaintiff  shall file  a certified copy of the order of remand with the clerk of the 
state court and shall forthwith give written notice of such filing to the attorneys of record 
for all adverse par ties.”  
(emphasis added)   
IN RE: M.E.M., ET AL.    
**CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, **   
  
Petitioner,   
  
 Petitioner ’s Request for Declaratory Judgement  
MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS,   
  
Respondent.   
  
2025 -03-31

4. This places the obligation on COOPER L. CARTER to file with the clerk of the state court a 
certified notice of remand , which she has failed to do as of March 31 , 2025, nearly three months 
later.  
5. COOPER L. CARTER ’s authority to represent MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS has been in question  
since September 20, 2024, over six months ago and is in que stion in this matter.  
6. COOPER L. CARTER has never filed a pleading on  MORGAN MICHELLE MYER S’ behalf in either 
this court or the 322nd district court since she was allegedly retained on January 22, 2024, over fourteen 
months ago.  
7. ROD ERICK D. MARX has filed every pleading on behalf of COOPER L. CARTER in both  this matter  
and the divorce matter . 
8. RODERICK D. MARX has not  made an appearance or otherwise been named as a party  in either suit.  
9. Ne ither RODERICK D. MARX nor  COOPER L. CARTER have  filed any response to any pleadings 
served to them by CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS . 
10. Neither RO DERICK D. MARX nor COOPER L. CARTER h ave filed any pleading since April 24, 
2024 in the divorce m atter, nearly twelve months ago.  
11. C OOPER L. CARTER has left the 322nd District Cou rt without jurisdiction and has no ability 
to reinstate it, thereby resulting in an inevitable dismissal for want of prosecution. 
12. COOPER L. CARTER cannot reinstate jurisdiction because her EFM is registered to her prior employer ’s email address, which has been pointed out several t imes by Petitioner . 
13. Therefore , the 322
nd District Court of Tarrant County has lost continuous exclusive 
jurisdiction of the minor children in this suit and t his SAPCR is properly before this  court.  
14. On March 28, 2025, the Petitioner arrived at the 233rd District Court to present his 
emergency TRO as s cheduled with the Court Coordinator  on March 27, 2025.

15. The Petitioner was then told to contact COOPER L. CARTER by the Court Coordinator to 
select dates for the TRO hearing  prior to his presentation once he arrive d at the court . 
16. The parties selected April 10, 2025, to have the hearing, and the Petitioner went before the 
Associate Judge to present his emergenc y TRO.  
17. Prior to being called up to present, the Associate Judge left the room and conversed with the 
court coordinator.  
18. When she returned , Petitioner was called up to present the emergency TRO.  
19. Before getting a chance to speak, th e Associate Judge informed the Petitioner that COOPER  
L. CARTER had filed the consolidation motion in the wrong court and would be filing one with the 322
nd District Court.  
20. The Petitioner was denied an opportunity to present his emergency TRO and  was told to 
instead file the pleading with the 322nd District Court.  
21. The Petitioner then reminded the Associate Judge that the 322nd District Court does not have 
jurisdiction over the matter of divorce  due to Rule 237a ’s requirements not being met. 
22. The Associate Judge disagreed and  refused  to hear the emergency TRO.  
23. At the close of business on March 28, 2025, no thing was ever filed with the 322nd District 
Court  by COOPER L. CARTER . 
24. Petitioner  and the children in this suit were denied due process outright  despite being correct 
in his legal position.  
25. Petitioner ’s detriment to his position is the fact that he is self -represented . 
26. Respondent ’s detriment to her position is the lack o f prosecution or defense.

II. ARGUMENT  
The statement of facts , unless  promptly rebutted by COOPER L. CARTER, warrant 
immediate relief as duly requested in the emergency TRO th rough a declarator y 
judgement , and this cour t should proceed with the hearing date originally set for April 
10th, 2025, and the  emergency TRO should be GRANTED  without further delay . 
COOPER L. CARTER disrupte d much needed relief for the minor  children in this 
case with false promises delivered to the tribunal  that directly undermined the 
Petitioner ’s due process rights .  
Petitioner reasserts  his pos ition th at COOPER L. CARTER is acting without 
authority, has no ability to reinstate jurisdiction to the 322nd District Court of Tarrant 
County, and cannot explain how she is able to abandon a case for nearly a full calendar 
year,  yet can suddenly show up to defend before this court  for the sole purpose to  
prevent Petitioner ’s emergency TRO from being h eard.  
It may be a needle in the haystack, but this case defies the initial presumption that 
pro-se litig ants are not as equipped or as capable as licensed attorneys , and it is no fault 
of COOPER L. CARTER. The Petitioner reminds the court that the true culprit 
responsible for this remains the puppet master hiding in the background – the 
Respondent  – and yet Petitioner  wishes no harm to her because this litigation is about 
the children. The children need their mother, but they also need their father.  
Perhaps the zealous passion has been misunderstood for contempt by the tribunal, 
but Petitioner ’s motive runs parallel  to that set forth in the Texas Family Code. 
However, despite the procedural quagmire, the anomalies, the pro- se status, the 
solution remains simple :

Grant  the relief. Nobody has argued against it, Texas law allows it, and the 
best interest s of the Children encour age it  and depend on it. I welcome any response 
from COOPER L. CARTER to the contrary. 
 If approache d from a logical standpoint, the situation can be inter preted as 
such:  
i. COOPER L. CARTER is sh ackled by Rule 12 and Rule 237a of the 
Texas Rules of Civil Procedure.  
ii. The 322nd District Court is shackled from proceeding  due to never 
being reinstated jur isdiction . 
iii. The Petitioner is sh ackled from his home, his children’ s daily liv es, 
and his place of business under facially void orders. 
iv. Most critically, the children are sh ackled in a situation that is not in 
their best interests and  continue to suffer irreparable harm  without 
any opportunity for relief. 
 
Indeed, that leaves just one party un- chained from this situation:  
the Respondent.  Petitioner rests his case . 
 
 
Respectfully  submitted , 
   /s/ Charle s Dustin Myers 
 CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS  
 6641 Anne Court, Watau ga, Texas 76148  
 CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM  
 817-546-3693