NO. 322- 744263- 23 
 
IN THE 322nd DISTRICT COURT OF TARRANT COUNTY , TEXAS  
 
 
 
TO THE HONORABLE COURT:  
 The undersigned, Charles Dustin Myers, respectfully objects to any attempt to set the  
above referenced matter for any trial setting, and in support of this objection, shows the  
following:  
Three concurrent mandamuses  
 There are currently three pending mandamus petitions awaiting resolution in the Second  
Court of Appeals seeking redress from recent actions taken by COOPER L. CARTER, counsel  
for Petitioner, to thwart emergency TRO proceedings in the 233rd District Court of Tarrant  
county.  
 In sum, these mandamus petitions address the following alleged errors:  
1. V oid orders ; (this case)  02-25-00166- CV 
2. Improper consolidation; 02-25-00171 -CV 
3. Refusal to rule.  02-25-00164- CV ITMOMO  
(AITIO M.E.M., C.R.M., two children ) 
MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS  
  
  
Petitioner,   
  
  
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS , Objection to Trial Setting and Request for Stay 
of Proceedings 
 
  
Respondent.   
  
2025 -04-23

Current issues 
 Currently, there are several issues that remain unaddressed that need to be resolved:  
1. The entire case foundation is fraudulent  due to Petitioner’s pleadings . 
2. The undersigned has sought relief from this situation since March 14, 2024, 
when the original orders issued on January 16, 2024, which removed the 
undersigned from his home without the required findings, were leveraged into 
a settlement agreement that was not consented to by all of the parties and did not serve the best interests of the children.  
3. COOPER L. CARTER’s authority remains in question, and her inactivity combined with the ambiguity surrounding her representation must be addressed . 
4. The undersigned has been forced to live in transient housing and incur 
extraordinary damages  to his business operations  due to the Petitioners 
fraudulent allegations which were never supported by evidence. 
5. The children in this matter continue to suffer ongoing and irreparable harm  
from being separated from their father unjustifiably . 
6. There is no child support set up for the children.  
Informal service  
 Furthermore, the court continues to issue notices informally through the court 
coordinator, which is improper.  
Pursuant to Texas Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 21a, service of a notice via email 
directly, rather than through the electronic filing manager (EFM), does not constitute proper

service if the email address is on file with the EFM. Texas courts have consistently held that 
electronic service must be made through the EFM when the recipient's email address is registered there.  The undersigned’s email is registered with the EFM.  
Conclusion 
 Because the undersigned has an email on file with the EFM, there is no court order 
requiring alternative service, and there is no agreement waiving formal service, any notice of 
court proceedings  not in compliance with rule 21a of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure is 
improper.  
 Furthermore, because there are several issues that remain unaddressed, such as COOPER 
CARTER’S authority, the ongoing mandamus proceedings, the ongoing irreparable harm  to the 
children , and the facially void orders which have caused detrimental effects  to the undersigned, 
the risk of these issues creating future delays remains high.  
 The undersigned is prepared to challenge any adverse actions taken against him in the 
face of these issues and will seek relief until this matter is resolved in accordance with the 
principles of fairness and justice.  The undersigned requests that the court stay all fu ture 
proceedings until the above matters are resolved.  
 Respectfully submitted,  
   /s/ Charles Dustin Myers  
   CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS  
   CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM  
   6641 ANNE COURT  
   WATAUGA, TEXAS 76148  
   817-546-3693