FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-UNITED-STATES-DISTRICT-COURT-WESTERN-DISTRICT-OF-OKLAHOMA-CHARLES-DUSTIN-MYERS------Plaintiff------v-1.pdf
PAGES: 46
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT WESTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, ) ) Plaintiff, ) ) v. ) No. CIV-24-1311-R ) DANIEL
KENNETH BRANTHOOVER; ) And MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS, ) )
Defendants. ) ORDER Before the Court is Plaintiff Charles Dustin Myers’s
Motion for Reconsideration [Doc. No. 31] of this Court’s Order [Doc. No. 29]
granting Defendants’ Motions to Dismiss [Doc. Nos. 18 & 24]. Plaintiff has
also filed a Motion for Leave to Supplement Rule 59(e) Motion for
Reconsideration, or in the alternative, a Motion for Leave to Amend the First
Amended Complaint [Doc. No. 32]. The matter is now at issue.1 For the
following reasons, Plaintiff’s Motions are denied. On December 14, 2023,
Plaintiff allegedly discovered that his wife, Defendant Myers, was having an
affair [Doc. No. 16, ¶ 19]. That same day, Defendant Myers opened a private
bank account and exchanged several text messages with Defendant
Branthoover. Id. The next day, Defendant Myers transferred $1,576.00 from
her joint account with 1 All parties to this action are proceeding pro se. The
Court therefore gives the pleadings a liberal construction but does not act as
an advocate. See Hall v. Bellmon, 935 F.2d 1106, 1110 (10th Cir. 1991). Case
5:24-cv-01311-R Document 33 Filed 10/14/25 Page 1 of 12 Plaintiff to
Defendant Branthoover, then traveled to Defendant Branthoover’s home in
Oklahoma to draft allegedly fraudulent legal documents. Id. ¶¶ 23, 25. This
transfer caused the account to be overdrawn, which harmed Plaintiff’s
business. Id. ¶ 26. Plaintiff contended that this transfer constituted wire
fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343, and that Defendant Myers’s trip to
Oklahoma violated the Travel Act, 18 U.S.C. § 1952. Id. ¶¶ 25, 59, 74. On
December 17, 2023, Defendant Myers allegedly “completed the interstate
transportation phase of the criminal scheme by transporting the fraudulent
court documents prepared in Oklahoma back across state lines to Texas.” Id.
¶ 35. These documents were filed in a Texas court the next day. Id. ¶¶ 39-40.
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff was ordered to vacate the home he shared
with Defendant Myers. Id. ¶ 47. According to Plaintiff, this marked the
achievement of Defendants’ primary criminal objective. Id. ¶¶ 47-48.
Plaintiff filed this civil RICO suit under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1962(c) and (d) and
Defendants moved to dismiss for failure to state a claim and improper
venue. On August 28, 2025, this Court fully granted Defendants’ Motions to
Dismiss and entered judgment against Plaintiff, finding Plaintiff failed to
state a RICO claim because he did not adequately allege a pattern of
racketeering activity [Doc. No. 30]. Doc. No. 29 at p. 3. To allege a pattern
of racketeering activity, plaintiffs must demonstrate a relationship between
the predicate criminal acts and a threat of continuing activity. Johnson v.
Heath, 56 F.4th 851, 859 (10th Cir. 2022). A threat of continuing activity
may be demonstrated by establishing either open-ended or closed-ended
continuity. Id. The Court explained Plaintiff had failed to demonstrate open-
ended continuity because communications that occurred after the
achievement of Defendants’ primary Case 5:24-cv-01311-R Document 33
Filed 10/14/25 Page 2 of 12 objective were unrelated to the alleged
racketeering activity. Doc. No. 29 at p. 6. Furthermore, the Court found
those communications did not plausibly support a continuing threat of
criminal conduct. Id. The Court also found Plaintiff failed to demonstrate

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
closedended continuity. Id. at p. 7 (citations omitted). On September 4,
2025, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Reconsideration of the Court’s Order. Doc.
No. 31. On September 19, 2025, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to
Supplement Rule 59(e) Motion for Reconsideration, or in the alternative, a
Motion for Leave to Amend the First Amended Complaint. Doc. No. 32.
Plaintiff now asks the Court to reconsider its ruling, arguing (1) that newly
discovered fraudulent emails from Defendant Myers’s attorney support
Plaintiff’s position that he adequately pleaded openended continuity and (2)
that the Court overlooked material allegations and controlling law when
granting Defendants’ Motions to Dismiss. Doc. Nos. 31, 32. Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 59(e) “gives a district court the chance ‘to rectify its own
mistakes in the period immediately following’ its decision.” Banister v. Davis,
590 U.S. 504, 508 (2020) (quoting White v. N.H. Dep’t of Emp. Sec., 455 U.S.
445, 450 (1982)). The grounds for granting relief from a judgment under
Rule 59(e) “include (1) an intervening change in the controlling law, (2) new
evidence previously unavailable, and (3) the need to correct clear error or
prevent manifest injustice.” See Servants of the Paraclete v. Does, 204 F.3d
1005, 1012 (10th Cir. 2000). A Rule 59(e) motion “is appropriate where the
court has misapprehended the facts, a party’s position, or the controlling
law. . . . It is not appropriate to revisit issues already addressed or advance
arguments that could have been raised in prior briefing.” Id. (citations Case
5:24-cv-01311-R Document 33 Filed 10/14/25 Page 3 of 12 omitted). A
motion for reconsideration “is not a second chance for the losing party to
make its strongest case or to dress up arguments that previously failed.”
Voelkel v. Gen. Motors Corp., 846 F. Supp. 1482, 1483 (D. Kan. 1994)
(citation omitted). “Rule 59(e) motions may be based either on (1) evidence
arising after the initial ruling (in which event the party’s diligence in seeking
the evidence is obviously not a consideration) or (2) evidence available but
not discovered at the time of the initial ruling (in which event the moving
party must show it diligently sought the evidence earlier).” Bell v. Bd. of
Cnty. Comm’rs, 451 F.3d 1097, 1102 (10th Cir. 2006) (citing Webber v.
Mefford, 43 F.3d 1340, 1345 (10th Cir. 1994); Comm. for the First Amend. v.
Campbell, 962 F.2d 1517, 1523 (10th Cir. 1992)). With regard to Plaintiff’s
“newly discovered” evidence, Plaintiff argues he has “now discovered that
Defendant Myers’[s] alleged attorney in Texas relied on interstate wires to
send fraudulent emails” which contained documents “modified to make it
appear as if Plaintiff agreed to the deprivation of his property and business
interests, and directly awarded property to Myers, and has been in effect
since March 14, 2024.” Doc. No. 32 at pp. 2-3. Plaintiff states that this
“information became known on September 6, 2025, as Plaintiff discovered
that the email address used by Myers’[s] attorney relies on interstate wires
to transmit these communications.” Id. at p. 3. Beyond conclusory
allegations that these emails are newly discovered, Plaintiff provides no
coherent argument that the emails actually arose after judgment or were
available but not discovered despite his diligent efforts. Case 5:24-cv-01311-
R Document 33 Filed 10/14/25 Page 4 of 12 First, Plaintiff has not indicated
these emails arose after the Court entered judgment on August 28, 2025.
Instead, he vaguely states he learned of these emails on September 6, 2025,
when he discovered Defendant Myers’s attorney used an email that relies on
interstate wires. Doc. No. 32 at p. 3. Plaintiff provides no details regarding
Myers’s counsel or the dates of these emails. Perhaps new emails did
originate after the entry of judgment— but Plaintiff’s conclusory allegations

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
are not sufficient to allow the Court to conclude this evidence is new.
Second, if the emails were not new, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that
he diligently sought this evidence before judgment on August 28, 2025.
Plaintiff alleges he discovered the emails on September 6, 2025, “[t]hrough
reasonable diligence.” Id. at pp. 2-3. This conclusory statement
misunderstands the standard: Plaintiff must show he diligently sought the
evidence prior to the Court’s entry of judgment but was unable to uncover it.
Bell, 451 F.3d at 1102. The allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint indicate his
awareness that electronic transmissions could rely upon interstate wires.
See. Doc. No. 16, ¶ 66. Yet Plaintiff does not state he diligently sought this
information prior to judgment, nor does he argue, in any coherent manner,
that this information was unavailable despite his diligent efforts to uncover
it.2 2 In his Motion for Reconsideration, Plaintiff briefly mentions additional
threats, including threats of bodily injury, since filing this RICO litigation.
Doc. No. 31 at pp. 6-7. This “new threat,” Plaintiff says, occurred three days
after he filed his First Amended Complaint. Id. In his Motion to Supplement
or Amend, however, Plaintiff fails to mention any threats of bodily injury. In
any event, Plaintiff admitted that these ongoing threats occurred prior to
entry of judgment, and that he intended to bring them before the Court at
the summary judgment stage. Id. It appears that Plaintiff could have brought
this information before the Court prior to entry of judgment, and thus they
do not qualify as “newly discovered” Case 5:24-cv-01311-R Document 33
Filed 10/14/25 Page 5 of 12 Because Plaintiff has not satisfied either
requirement, the Court denies his Motion for Leave to Supplement 59(e)
Motion. In any event, the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s allegations related
to these emails would not have impacted its decision in favor of Defendants,
as discussed below. See infra at pp. 10-11. Plaintiff next contends that the
Court’s order “overlooked material allegations and controlling law regarding
the ongoing nature of the enterprise and the real threat of continued
racketeering activity.” Doc. No. 31 at p. 20. Specifically, Plaintiff argues the
Court failed to consider “that the enterprise’s broader objective—fraudulent
disposition of property and rights through the divorce—remains unfulfilled,
and that the divorce litigation is ongoing” when determining (1) that the
Defendants’ communications were unrelated to the initial scheme and (2)
that the communications did not support an open-ended threat of continuing
criminal conduct. Id. at pp. 4-7. Plaintiff further argues that reconsideration
is warranted “to prevent manifest injustice.” Id. at p. 10. Because Plaintiff
focuses on the Court’s analysis of open-ended continuity, the Court will do
the same here. In support of his argument, Plaintiff cites Resol. Tr. Corp. v.
Stone, 998 F.2d 1534, 1545 (10th Cir. 1993), abrogated on other grounds by
Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 939 (2009), for the proposition that
continuity is measured at the time of suit. Doc. No. 31 at p. 5. Plaintiff
argues that the Court prematurely measured continuity by focusing solely
on the “primary objective” of removing Plaintiff from the family home (which
Plaintiff alleged was achieved in January of 2024). Id. According to Plaintiff,
had the Court evidence or evidence Plaintiff could not obtain with
reasonable diligence prior to entry of judgment. Case 5:24-cv-01311-R
Document 33 Filed 10/14/25 Page 6 of 12 considered the enterprise’s
broader purpose (defrauding Plaintiff and manipulating judicial
proceedings), which remained unachieved when Plaintiff filed suit in June of
2025, it would have found open-ended continuity. Id. To allege the risk of
related, continuing criminal activity after achievement of the alleged

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
primary objective, Plaintiff pointed to the following:  Defendants’ continued
interstate communication regarding the case “in direct furtherance of their
fraudulent scheme to see the divorce through to its finalization[;]” 
Defendant Branthoover’s June 23, 2024, text message to Plaintiff stating
“Lol. And here comes another denial[;]”  Defendant Branthoover’s
December 12, 2024, text message to Plaintiff stating "When things all over
you get to deal with me. Just a heads up[;]”  Defendant Branthoover’s
statement “I’ve been enjoying watching every filing get denied[;]” and 
Defendant Branthoover’s May 24, 2025, text message to Plaintiff stating
“Where’s my lawsuit? Heard your vm about me. File it. Let’s do this :)[.]”
Doc. No. 16, ¶¶ 49-52. Plaintiff’s argument that the Court failed to consider
the enterprise’s broader goal misunderstands the Court’s Order. Despite
Plaintiff’s explicit statement in his Complaint that “the enterprise’s criminal
scheme achieved its primary objective” on January 16, 2024, id. ¶ 47, the
Court did consider Plaintiff’s allegations that the enterprise’s broader
purpose was “to defraud Plaintiff of his property interests and manipulate
judicial proceedings.” Doc. No. 29 at pp. 6-7 (quoting Doc. No. 16, ¶ 101).
But the Court ultimately found that Plaintiff did not allege the texts from
Defendant Branthoover were sent with the intention of defrauding Plaintiff
or creating and filing Case 5:24-cv-01311-R Document 33 Filed 10/14/25
Page 7 of 12 fraudulent court documents. Id. at p. 6. Instead, Plaintiff
alleged those texts evidenced retaliation, malice, and involvement in the
Texas litigation, and thus the Court found they were unrelated to the initial
common scheme. Doc. No. 16, ¶¶ 49-52. The Court similarly found Plaintiff’s
allegations regarding communications between the Defendants were
conclusory and failed to demonstrate their relationship to the common
scheme. Doc. No. 29 at p. 6. Plaintiff is now attempting to “dress up” an
argument he has already attempted to make, and as such this is not a proper
basis for his Motion for Reconsideration. The same is true for the open-
ended continuity part of the pattern requirement. Plaintiff argues the Court
overlooked the continuing threat of criminal activity posed by the “ongoing
[divorce] litigation, where Defendants have a continuing incentive and
opportunity to commit further acts of perjury, wire fraud, or other
racketeering activity to achieve their ultimate goal.” Doc. No. 31 at p. 5
(citing Doc. No. 16, ¶¶ 49-54, 86(ii), 101- 02). As already discussed, the
Court was aware of Plaintiff’s attempts to plead a broader criminal purpose
of defrauding Plaintiff through the divorce litigation. See Doc. No. 29 at p. 5
(“Nevertheless, Plaintiff points to the following [texts and communications]
to demonstrate the duration of the scheme . . . But the communications . . .
do [not] show continuity sufficient to demonstrate a pattern of racketeering
activities.”). Moreover, the Court ultimately found the text “messages—while
taunting—[did] not plausibly support a continuing threat of criminal
conduct.” Id. at p. 6. Plaintiff also appears to argue that the Court’s focus on
the enterprise’s “single, narrow purpose” of removing Plaintiff from the
family home ignores Tenth Circuit law stating that open-ended continuity
may be found even where a RICO claim “is based on Case 5:24-cv-01311-R
Document 33 Filed 10/14/25 Page 8 of 12 one scheme involving one victim,
but the plan contemplates open-ended fraudulent activity and does not have
a single goal that, when achieved, will bring the activity to an end.” Doc. No.
31 at p. 7 (citing Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick, 810 F.2d 925, 929 (10th Cir.
1987)). As discussed, the Court did consider the enterprise’s alleged
broader purpose when considering open-ended continuity and found

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Plaintiff’s arguments nevertheless failed to allege a pattern of racketeering
activity. See Doc. No. 29 at p. 6. See also id. at p. 7 (quoting Skurkey v.
Daniel, No. CIV-22-496-R, 2023 WL 101946, at *6 (W.D. Okla. Jan. 4, 2023))
(“‘Courts have uniformly and consistently held that schemes involving a
single, narrow purpose and one or few participants directed towards a
single victim do not satisfy the RICO requirement of a closed or open
pattern of continuity.’”) (citation and quotation marks omitted). Even if the
Court had failed to consider that “broader purpose,” and did so now, the
alleged scheme is still quite narrow, with one victim (Plaintiff), few
participants (Myers and Branthoover), and the limited goal of defrauding
Plaintiff through divorce litigation. That hardly takes Plaintiff’s allegations
outside of Skurkey. Even if the Court considered Plaintiff’s allegedly “newly
discovered” evidence— emails sent by Defendant Myers’s attorney—it still
could not conclude that Plaintiff pleaded open-ended continuity for the same
reasons under Torwest. Based on Plaintiff’s arguments regarding the emails,
the Court cannot conclude they would broaden the purpose such that the
allegations fall outside of Skurkey’s limitations on open-ended continuity.
Plaintiff argues the “newly discovered” emails violate the Hobbs Act, 18
U.S.C. § 1951(a), (b)(2), because they involve extortion under color of official
right through “threaten[ing] adverse official action and misus[ing] the
authority of the court.” Doc. No. Case 5:24-cv-01311-R Document 33 Filed
10/14/25 Page 9 of 12 32 at pp. 2-3. “Under 18 U.S.C. § 1961, instances of
extortion or attempted extortion qualify as predicate acts.” Gillmor v.
Thomas, 490 F.3d 791, 798 (10th Cir. 2007). “Attempted extortion ‘under
color of official right’ is ‘a public official’s attempt to obtain money not due
him or his office.’” Id. (citation omitted). Construed liberally, Plaintiff may be
attempting to allege a broader criminal purpose. But there are a host of
potential problems with Plaintiff’s Hobbs Act arguments. First, based on
Plaintiff’s vague arguments, the Court cannot conclude his allegations
regarding misuse of court authority plead extortion under the Hobbs Act.
Courts have long held “meritless litigation is not extortion under § 1951.”
Deck v. Engineered Laminates, 349 F.3d 1253, 1258 (10th Cir. 2003)
(plaintiff’s allegations that pleadings included deliberately false allegations
did not constitute extortion). “[R]ecognizing abusive litigation as a form of
extortion would subject almost any unsuccessful lawsuit to a colorable
extortion (and often a RICO) claim.” Id. “This rationale extends to threats of
litigation, whether meritorious or frivolous.” Clark v. Stockton, No.
CIV-23-1147-SLP, 2024 WL 3258845, at *4 (W.D. Okla. June 12, 2024)
(citation omitted). Moreover, Plaintiff has not alleged a public official
obtained a payment for which he was not entitled, knowing it was made in
return for official acts. See United States v. Vigil, 523 F.3d 1258, 1266 (10th
Cir. 2008) (“To prove extortion ‘under color of official right, . . . the
Government need only show that a public official has obtained a payment to
which he was entitled, knowing that the payment was made in return for
official acts.’”) (citation omitted). And, assuming at least some of these
emails are not new, this is another Case 5:24-cv-01311-R Document 33 Filed
10/14/25 Page 10 of 12 attempt by Plaintiff to raise an argument that could
have been alleged before entry of judgment.3 The Court declines to engage
with this argument further. In conclusion, the Court will not reconsider its
findings that the communications alleged by Plaintiff did not relate to the
scheme to defraud Plaintiff and file false documents and did not plausibly
support a continuing threat of criminal conduct. Finally, the Court turns to

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Plaintiff’s alternative Motion for Leave to Amend the First Amended
Complaint under FED. R. CIV. P. 15(a)(2). Doc. No. 32. “The liberality of Rule
15 no longer applies after judgment has been entered.” Hartleib v. Weiser L.
Firm, P.C., 861 Fed. App’x 714, 722 (10th Cir. 2021) (citation omitted).
“‘[O]nce judgment is entered the filing of an amended complaint is not
permissible until judgment is set aside or vacated pursuant to FED. R. CIV. P.
59(e) or 60(b).’” Bell v. Soc. Sec. Admin. Ct. of Appeals (ALJ), No.
CIV-16-1480-F, 2017 WL 3319379, at *1 (W.D. Okla. Jan. 13, 2017) (quoting
Cooper v. Shumway, 780 F.2d 27, 29 (10th Cir. 1985)). Because this Court
denies Plaintiff’s Rule 59(e) motion, there is no justification for a post-
judgment amendment. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Rule 59(e) Motion for
Reconsideration [Doc No. 31] is DENIED. Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
Supplement Rule 59(e) Motion for Reconsideration, and alternatively,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend the First Amended Complaint [Doc.
No. 32], are both DENIED. 3 Indeed, Plaintiff’s treatment of the issue is
disappointing. This hearkens back to a letter written by Judge Wayne Alley
regarding motions for reconsideration. There, Judge Alley asked, “Is there
some misapprehension widely held in the bar that our court, in ruling on a
motion after it is fully briefed, is just hitting a fungo?” 62 Okla. B.J. 108
(1991); also cited in United States v. Cos, 498 F.3d 1115, 1123 n.2 (10th Cir.
2007). Case 5:24-cv-01311-R Document 33 Filed 10/14/25 Page 11 of 12 IT
IS SO ORDERED this 14th day of October, 2025. Case 5:24-cv-01311-R
Document 33 Filed 10/14/25 Page 12 of 12 To prepare a strong argument for
appeal in the Tenth Circuit, could you please clarify the following: Are you
appealing solely the denial of the Motion for Reconsideration (Doc. 31), or
the original dismissal of the case (Doc. 29), or both? What specific relief or
ruling are you seeking from the Tenth Circuit? Should the appeal focus
exclusively on the RICO continuity issue, or include other grounds (e.g.,
causation, pleading standards, procedural issues)? This will help ensure the
appeal argument references the order precisely and targets the strongest
legal basis. You said: meticulously look for what the judge overlooked and to
identify if there's any Circuit splits of authority on the issues ChatGPT said:
Understood. I will thoroughly analyze the judge's order for any overlooked
facts or legal standards, especially as they relate to RICO continuity and
predicate acts. I’ll also investigate whether there are any circuit splits—
particularly between the Tenth Circuit and others like the Second or Ninth—
on the relevant issues, such as RICO continuity, causation, and pleading
standards at the motion to dismiss stage. I’ll get back to you with a detailed
assessment shortly. Judicial Oversight and Circuit Splits in RICO Dismissal
Analysis of the District Court’s RICO Rulings (Docs. 29 & 33) Introduction In
Myers v. Branthoover, Case No. CIV-24-1311-R, the district court (Doc. 29)
dismissed Plaintiff’s civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), and later
denied reconsideration (Doc. 33). The court concluded that Plaintiff failed to
plead a “pattern of racketeering activity,” reasoning that the alleged scheme
was a single, isolated effort with a discrete goal that had been achieved –
namely, forcing Plaintiff from his home and defrauding him in a divorce
proceeding. In denying reconsideration, the court stood by its view that no
ongoing threat of racketeering existed once this “primary objective” was
accomplished. The central issue is whether the court overlooked well-
pleaded facts of an ongoing enterprise, ignored or misapplied controlling
precedent on RICO’s continuity requirement, and rigidly interpreted the
pattern element in a manner inconsistent with RICO’s flexible standards. We

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
also address relevant circuit splits on what qualifies as a RICO “pattern” –
particularly in single-victim schemes or ongoing litigation – and how detailed
predicate act allegations must be at the Rule 12(b)(6) stage. Factual
Allegations and RICO Claim in the FAC Summary of the Scheme: Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleged that Defendants (Plaintiff’s ex-
spouse and her associate) formed an enterprise to fraudulently deprive him
of property and manipulate a divorce case to her advantage. The scheme
began in December 2023 and, according to the FAC, continued into 2025
during the ongoing divorce litigation. The FAC detailed a series of predicate
acts: multiple instances of wire fraud (e.g. interstate communications and a
bank transfer) and violations of the Travel Act (interstate travel to further
the fraud). For example, on December 14, 2023, the Defendants exchanged
92 text messages coordinating their plan; on December 15, 2023, one
defendant traveled interstate (Texas to Oklahoma) and they made false
promises by phone to lure Plaintiff into complacency; on December 16–17,
2023, Defendants executed an interstate wire transfer of $1,576 from the
marital bank account into a PayPal account and transported fraudulent legal
documents across state lines. The FAC also described continuing acts of
intimidation and deception well after the initial eviction incident – including
threatening text messages in June and December 2024 (e.g. “When things
all over you get to deal with me. Just a heads up.”) and May 2025 (“File it.
Let’s do this.”) – to illustrate that the enterprise remained active and posed
a ongoing threat to Plaintiff as the divorce case progressed. Alleged Ongoing
Enterprise: Crucially, the FAC asserted that the scheme’s ultimate objective
– fraudulently obtaining favorable property and legal outcomes in the
divorce – was not yet accomplished because the divorce proceedings and
property disposition were still pending. The complaint explicitly pleaded that
Defendants’ racketeering activity extended approximately 18 months (Dec.
2023 through May 2025) and that further predicate acts were likely as the
case moved toward final trial. In other words, Plaintiff alleged an open-
ended pattern: the enterprise’s conduct had not ceased, and there remained
a real risk of continued fraud (such as perjury in court filings or additional
wire fraud) to achieve the unfulfilled goal of stripping Plaintiff of assets via
the divorce. The FAC detailed how the predicate acts were interrelated –
sharing a common purpose (defrauding Plaintiff in the divorce), the same
participants, the same victim, and similar methods of deception. These
allegations were intended to satisfy RICO’s “relationship” prong and
demonstrate that the acts were not isolated events. Particularity of
Predicate Acts: The predicate acts were pled with considerable detail, as
required for fraud-based RICO claims. The FAC identified specific dates,
communications, and transactions underpinning the wire fraud and Travel
Act violations. For instance, it quotes a deceptive phone call on Dec. 15,
2023 (“I’ve been where you are before. I want to help both of you.”) and
describes the exact amount and destination of the wire transfer ($1,576 to
Branthoover’s PayPal) on Dec. 16, 2023. Such allegations clearly inform
Defendants of the “who, what, when, where, and how” of the fraud,
satisfying Rule 9(b)’s particularity requirement for pleading predicate acts
of wire fraud. At the motion-to-dismiss stage, a RICO plaintiff need not prove
these acts but must plead facts that, if true, constitute indictable predicate
offenses. Here, the well-pleaded facts, taken as true, establish at least two
predicate acts (indeed several) indictable under 18 U.S.C. § 1343 (wire
fraud) and § 1952 (use of interstate facilities to promote unlawful activity).

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
The injury to Plaintiff’s business and property – including over $100,000 in
lost business income and the diverted $1,576 – was also specifically
quantified and linked to Defendants’ acts. In short, the complaint on its face
contained sufficient detail and plausible inferences to meet the threshold for
a RICO claim, assuming the continuity/pattern element was satisfied. The
District Court’s Rulings (Docs. 29 & 33) Dismissal (Doc. 29): In its August
28, 2025 order granting the motions to dismiss, the court found that Plaintiff
failed to plead a “pattern of racketeering activity.” Although the order itself
is not quoted at length in the record here, its substance is evidenced by the
motion for reconsideration and subsequent analysis. The court essentially
held that the alleged scheme lacked continuity because it was a single,
short-lived scheme with a narrow purpose aimed at one victim, which had
reached its culmination once Plaintiff was evicted and the immediate
fraudulent acts were done. The court appears to have viewed the string of
December 2023 acts (texts, phone call, wire transfer, fake documents) as
one cohesive episode to attain a one-time goal (removing Plaintiff from the
home and initiating the divorce under false pretenses). Any later conduct
(such as Defendants’ taunting texts or monitoring of the divorce case) was
not credited as part of the racketeering pattern. In fact, the court
characterized the post-eviction conduct as unrelated “retaliation” or mere
harassment, rather than as continuing acts in furtherance of the scheme. By
treating the enterprise’s goal as already “fully achieved,” the court
concluded there was no open-ended threat of continuing criminal activity. It
thus ruled that the continuity prong was not met and dismissed the RICO
count under Rule 12(b)(6). Notably, the court cited case law suggesting that
RICO continuity is hard to establish in single-victim or single-event schemes.
For example, it referenced decisions cautioning that a “single scheme
involving a single victim” and a finite objective will not ordinarily satisfy
RICO’s pattern requirement. In Skurkey v. Daniel (W.D. Okla. 2023), decided
by the same judge, the court had refused to find continuity where a scheme
was short-term and achieved its aim, and here the judge echoed that
cautious approach. By analogy to divorce-related fraud cases, the court
treated this dispute as essentially a domestic relations matter that – while
involving deceit – did not rise to the kind of ongoing criminal enterprise
RICO targets. Indeed, courts across jurisdictions have almost uniformly held
that a spouse’s concealment or misrepresentation of assets in a divorce is
not a RICO pattern, reasoning that such cases typically involve a single
scheme, a single victim (the other spouse), and a naturally limited timeframe
(the divorce proceeding) jhany.com jhany.com . The district court’s analysis
aligns with that general view. For instance, the Seventh Circuit has
repeatedly found no RICO pattern where all predicates relate to “one
transaction and one victim,” such as a one-shot effort to settle an insurance
claim or defraud a contracting party law.justia.com law.justia.com . The logic
is that when a case involves only one episode of fraud culminating in one
injury, the continuity element is not satisfied law.justia.com . The district
court here effectively placed Plaintiff’s allegations into that category – a one-
shot scheme in the context of one divorce – and thus dismissed the RICO
claim as a matter of law. Denial of Reconsideration (Doc. 33): Plaintiff filed a
Rule 59(e) motion arguing that the court had overlooked material facts and
controlling law on RICO continuity. In denying that motion on October 14,
2025, the court (Doc. 33) stood by its original ruling. It reasoned that
Plaintiff was essentially rearguing the same points, and it found no manifest

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
error of law or fact warranting reversal of the dismissal. The reconsideration
order (Doc. 33) did not substantially engage with new legal analysis; rather,
it reiterated that under the court’s view, the FAC did not plausibly allege an
ongoing pattern of racketeering. The judge noted that the scheme was
directed at one individual and had a “single, narrow purpose,” and he
emphasized that courts are hesitant to apply RICO to such scenarios.
According to the motion record, the order treated any acts after Plaintiff’s
removal from the home as outside the scope of the scheme’s core objective.
Thus, the court maintained that once the immediate goal (ousting Plaintiff
and seizing funds) was accomplished, the racketeering enterprise effectively
ceased to function. Importantly, the court’s denial of reconsideration did not
grapple with certain factual allegations in the FAC that suggested an
ongoing threat. For instance, the order failed to mention FAC ¶¶ 49–54 and
¶ 86(ii), which describe Defendants’ continued interstate communications
and threats through mid-2025, and the explicit statement that the enterprise
was still operating during the pending litigation. The Plaintiff had pointed
out that continuity should be measured “as of the time the suit is filed,” and
here the suit was filed before the divorce trial had concluded, with a real
risk of further fraud in that trial. However, the court’s reconsideration
decision did not address this timing nuance. It similarly did not cite or
distinguish controlling RICO precedent that Plaintiff raised, such as H.J. Inc.
v. Northwestern Bell Tel. Co., 492 U.S. 229 (1989), or Tenth Circuit cases
recognizing open-ended continuity when a scheme’s goal is unfulfilled. In
short, the denial of reconsideration doubled down on the original continuity
analysis without engaging with the ongoing-nature allegations or the cases
Plaintiff cited in support of finding a pattern. RICO’s Continuity
Requirement: Legal Standards To establish a “pattern of racketeering
activity” under § 1962(c), a plaintiff must show at least two predicate acts
that are both related to each other and continuous (or pose a threat of
continuity). This is the “continuity plus relationship” test derived from
RICO’s legislative history and the Supreme Court’s guidance in H.J. Inc.. All
circuits follow the general framework from H.J. Inc.: Relatedness: Predicate
acts are related if they have the same or similar purposes, participants,
victims, or methods, or otherwise are not isolated events. Here, relatedness
was not in serious dispute – the FAC plainly alleged a common scheme by
the same actors against the same victim, using similar methods of fraud and
intimidation. The district court did not deny that the acts were related; its
focus was on continuity. Continuity: This can be proven in two ways: Closed-
Ended Continuity – a series of related acts extending over a substantial
period of time. There is no bright-line for what is “substantial,” but acts over
only “a few weeks or months” with no future threat do not suffice case-
law.vlex.com . Many circuits (including the Tenth) look for activity spanning
at least a year or more to find closed-ended continuity, though this is a case-
specific inquiry case-law.vlex.com . Open-Ended Continuity – past conduct
which, by its nature or the circumstances of the case, threatens to continue
into the future case-law.vlex.com . This can be shown if the predicate acts
are part of a regular way of doing business for an ongoing entity, or if they
entail a “threat of repetition” – for example, the scheme is inherently open-
ended or will persist so long as its objective remains unachieved case-
law.vlex.com . The Supreme Court in H.J. Inc. emphasized that continuity is
“both a closed- and open-ended concept” – a flexible, fact-specific standard.
Importantly, courts must evaluate continuity at the time of the suit. If the

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
alleged scheme is ongoing or threatens future harm at the time of the
complaint, open-ended continuity may exist even if the past acts cover a
short duration. Conversely, if the scheme has a built-in termination point and
has achieved its aim, continuity is lacking unless the acts spanned a long
period (for closed-ended continuity). RICO’s aim is to target long-term
criminal conduct or the threat thereof, not isolated or one-off incidents.
Tenth Circuit Precedents: The Tenth Circuit applies these continuity
principles as articulated in H.J. Inc. and its own cases like Resolution Trust
Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d 1534 (10th Cir. 1993) and Tal v. Hogan, 453 F.3d
1244 (10th Cir. 2006). In Stone, the court reiterated that pattern requires
related predicates that “amount to or pose a threat of continued criminal
activity”. It recognized both closed-ended and open-ended continuity,
cautioning that the threat of continuity is crucial where the acts span only a
short time. In Tal v. Hogan, the Tenth Circuit explained that open-ended
continuity exists where, at the time of the suit, the “predicates are part of an
ongoing entity’s regular way of doing business” or there is a clear threat of
repetition into the future. The Tenth Circuit has expressly rejected any
requirement of multiple schemes or multiple victims: even a single scheme
targeting one victim can qualify if it is open-ended or otherwise poses a
continued threat. For example, in Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick, 810 F.2d 925
(10th Cir. 1987), and Condict v. Condict, 826 F.2d 923 (10th Cir. 1987), the
court held that “even a scheme targeting one victim can satisfy the
continuity requirement if it contemplates open-ended fraudulent activity and
does not have a single goal that, when achieved, will bring the activity to an
end.”. By contrast, if a scheme is truly “isolated and complete” – a one-shot
endeavor with no threat of ongoing conduct – then continuity is lacking. In
assessing a RICO pattern at the pleading stage, the Tenth Circuit has
stressed a holistic, fact-intensive approach. All relevant factors – the number
and variety of predicate acts, the length of time involved, the number of
victims, the presence of separate schemes, and the nature of the enterprise
– should be considered together (the “totality of the circumstances”). No
single factor (like a one-year duration or number of victims) is dispositive;
rather, the pattern requirement is meant to ensure the alleged conduct is
the sort of ongoing criminal conduct RICO was designed to address. Did the
Court Overlook Material Facts of Continuity? Ongoing Threat vs. Court’s
Finding of Completion: The pivotal factual dispute is whether the FAC’s
allegations, taken as true, showed an ongoing racketeering threat at the
time of suit. The district court did not explicitly discuss several of the FAC’s
continuity-oriented allegations, which is a strong indication they were
overlooked or disregarded. Notably, the court’s order **“did not address
[the] ongoing risks” detailed in the complaint, instead treating the scheme’s
“primary objective” as already complete. The FAC paragraphs 49–54 and
86(ii) described how Defendants continued their illicit conduct well after the
initial fraud in December 2023: they stayed in communication across state
lines to “see the divorce through to its finalization,” issued threats and
taunts whenever Plaintiff sought legal relief (in June & Dec. 2024), and even
in May 2025 were actively challenging him to “file [the] lawsuit” – effectively
daring further conflict. These factual averments indicate that the enterprise
was still operating and monitoring Plaintiff’s actions, with a continued intent
to defraud or intimidate him. Additionally, the FAC pointed out that the
divorce litigation was ongoing and the ultimate goal (a favorable fraudulent
property disposition) was unmet, implying that Defendants had a continued

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
incentive to commit further fraudulent acts (e.g. perjury, submission of false
evidence, additional wires) as the case moved toward trial. Under RICO’s
open-ended continuity analysis, such circumstances “specifically indicate a
threat of repetition” into the future case-law.vlex.com case-law.vlex.com .
The judge’s rulings, however, failed to credit these plausible factual
allegations. In fact, on the motion to dismiss, the court is required to accept
all well-pleaded facts as true and draw inferences in the plaintiff’s favor.
Plaintiff argued that the court failed to do so, instead dismissively labeling
the ongoing post-eviction conduct as “merely retaliatory” and not part of the
fraud scheme. This was arguably an error at the Rule 12 stage. For example,
the FAC alleged that Defendant Branthoover’s harassing messages (mocking
Plaintiff’s court filings and issuing threats like “you get to deal with me”)
were intended to intimidate Plaintiff from exposing their fraud and to secure
the fruits of the earlier acts. If so, those acts could be viewed as furthering
the same enterprise’s purpose – ensuring the fraudulent divorce outcome –
rather than random personal vendettas. The court didn’t acknowledge that
inference. Similarly, the FAC explicitly tied the continued communications to
the scheme’s goal (benefitting Myers in the divorce) and noted the
enterprise was still in play as of 2025. By ignoring these allegations, the
court essentially froze the scheme in December 2023, failing to recognize
the alleged 18-month duration and potential for future acts. Continuity
Measured at Filing Time: A material point the court overlooked is that
continuity must be evaluated as of when the complaint was filed (June 2025),
not in hindsight after the fact. At filing, the divorce case had not ended, and
the FAC said outright that “the risk of further predicate acts remains as the
final trial approaches.”. The judge, however, treated the scheme as if it had
a fixed endpoint (Plaintiff’s removal from the home). This is a mis-timing of
continuity. The Tenth Circuit in Stone made clear that “predicate acts
extending over a few weeks or months and threatening no future criminal
conduct do not satisfy [continuity],” but also that courts must look to the
threat of activity continuing in the future. Here, the FAC showed more than
a speculative threat – it pointed to a pending legal process in which
Defendants would likely have further chances to perpetrate fraud (e.g. by
lying to the court or concealing assets). The district court never discussed
how ongoing litigation fits into the continuity analysis, which is a significant
omission. Other courts have explicitly held that ongoing court proceedings
can provide the opportunity for continued racketeering acts, supporting
open-ended continuity. For instance, in Fisher Sand & Gravel Co. v. FNF
Constr., Inc. (D.N.M. 2013), a district court within the Tenth Circuit noted
that the “threat of continued criminal activity need not be speculative; it
may be grounded in ongoing litigation or circumstances that make further
predicate acts likely.”. The motion for reconsideration cited this principle,
yet the court’s order on reconsideration did not address it. Bottom Line: The
judge failed to address key factual allegations indicating an open-ended
pattern. By focusing only on the initial fraud and ignoring the FAC’s
description of continuing conduct and unrealized objectives, the court
overlooked “material allegations regarding the ongoing nature of the
enterprise and the real threat of continued racketeering activity.” In the
language of Rule 59(e), these were “material facts” that could have altered
the outcome if properly considered. The omission is evident from the record
– the order never mentions the late 2024 and 2025 acts, nor the assertion
that the scheme’s goal was unfulfilled. This suggests the court viewed those

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
facts as extraneous, when in reality they were central to the continuity
inquiry. Did the Court Misapply RICO Continuity Standards? Yes. The district
court’s application of the continuity requirement was unduly rigid and
arguably not in line with controlling precedent. Several aspects of the legal
analysis reveal misapplication: 1. Narrow Focus on a “Primary Objective” –
The court fixated on what it perceived as the scheme’s primary objective
(evicting Plaintiff and seizing some funds) and treated the achievement of
that objective as terminating the pattern. This approach is too rigid. The
Supreme Court in H.J. Inc. explicitly rejected a strict parsing of schemes into
single goals for continuity purposes. Instead, the question is whether, *after
the initial goal is achieved, the scheme’s nature and the actors’ behavior
suggest a continuing threat. The Tenth Circuit has echoed that “if the plan
contemplates open-ended fraudulent activity and does not have a single goal
that, when achieved, will bring the activity to an end, continuity may be
satisfied.”. Here, while the court saw a “single, narrow purpose,” the
Plaintiff contends the enterprise actually had a broader ongoing purpose: to
win the divorce by fraud, which includes not just the initial ouster but also
securing a favorable division of property and suppression of Plaintiff’s rights
through to final judgment. That broader purpose was not yet fulfilled. The
court’s mistake was in treating the interim success (Plaintiff’s removal) as
the scheme’s end, thereby ignoring the FAC’s allegation that the enterprise
was still actively pursuing its ultimate goal. In doing so, the court imposed a
de facto rule that once a primary objective is met, continuity is cut off. But
RICO continuity is not so easily truncated. As long as there is a threat of
continuing criminal conduct (here, further frauds in the legal process), the
pattern requirement can be met. The district court’s focus on a “one-and-
done” objective misapplied the open-ended continuity concept. 2.
Disregarding Open-Ended Continuity Doctrine – The court’s analysis reads
as if only closed-ended continuity (a long series of past acts) counts. It did
not seriously entertain that open-ended continuity could exist despite a short
timeframe, even though H.J. Inc. and Tenth Circuit cases allow it when
future threats are present. Plaintiff cited H.J. Inc. (which held that even a
scheme lasting only a few months can satisfy continuity if it poses a future
threat) and Tenth Circuit authority like Tal and Stone, but the court’s
reconsideration denial did not mention those cases at all. This suggests the
court may have misapprehended the standard, implicitly requiring either
multiple years of conduct or multiple schemes to find a pattern. For
example, the order cited an unpublished W.D. Okla case (Skurkey) to
emphasize caution in single-scheme cases, but it failed to acknowledge
contrary binding precedent that an ongoing single scheme can qualify. The
Tenth Circuit in Tal stated that open-ended continuity exists where the
predicates pose a threat of continuing criminal behavior “especially where
the enterprise’s business is not complete and further acts are likely”. That is
nearly a direct description of Plaintiff’s allegations (enterprise not complete,
further acts likely in litigation). By not applying that principle, the district
judge misapplied the law. In essence, the court treated the pattern element
as if it required a closed period of long duration or multiple distinct criminal
episodes – an approach the Ninth Circuit has termed a “bright-line, one-year
rule” and explicitly rejected as a “misconstruction of RICO’s flexible
continuity requirement.” case-law.vlex.com case-law.vlex.com The Ninth
Circuit’s Allwaste decision is instructive: there, the district court had held
the predicates must span at least one year, but the Ninth Circuit reversed,

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
noting that such a bright-line rule is improper and that open-ended
continuity can exist without a year’s passage if the threat is ongoing case-
law.vlex.com . The district court here, while not explicitly imposing a one-
year rule, effectively applied a similar inflexibility by dismissing a scheme of
~6 months (Dec. 2023–May 2024 actions) despite allegations of a continuing
threat. This is a misapplication when open-ended continuity was plausibly
shown. 3. Failure to Consider the “Regular Way of Doing Business” –
Another way to establish open-ended continuity is if the predicate acts
constitute the regular manner in which the defendants conduct their
ongoing enterprise case-law.vlex.com case-law.vlex.com . The FAC alleged
that Defendant Branthoover had essentially incorporated criminal means
(fraudulent documents, impersonation, etc.) as part of how he assists
divorcing clients or friends (the enterprise between him and Myers). If the
enterprise is an ongoing association (not a short partnership formed solely
for one score), then its methods can indicate open-ended continuity. The
court’s order did not analyze whether the enterprise had an ongoing
structure or long-term purpose beyond the immediate scheme. It treated the
association as purely scheme-specific. This might be another oversight:
courts, including the Tenth Circuit, look at the nature of the enterprise
(formal or informal, ongoing or ad hoc) in evaluating continuity. If, for
instance, Branthoover routinely engaged in similar fraudulent assistance in
domestic cases, that would bolster continuity (even if the immediate victim
is one person). There was some indication in the allegations that
Branthoover presented himself as someone who had done this before (“I’ve
been where you are… I want to help both of you”), suggesting a practice.
The court did not explore this. By zeroing in on the singular goal, the court
implicitly assumed the enterprise was short-lived, instead of taking the
allegations in the light most favorable to Plaintiff – i.e., that the enterprise
remained active and could victimize others or the same victim again. This
assumption runs counter to the motion-to-dismiss standard and RICO’s
enterprise concept. 4. Misreading Single-Victim Precedent – The judge cited
cases for the proposition that schemes with one victim and one purpose
often fail the pattern test. While true in many factual contexts, that is not an
ironclad rule, and binding authority makes clear it’s not a per se bar. The
reconsideration briefing highlighted Tenth Circuit cases (Torwest, Condict,
Edwards v. First Nat’l Bank, 872 F.2d 347 (10th Cir. 1989)) where single-
victim schemes were deemed sufficient because they either lasted a long
time or were open-ended in scope. The district court’s order did not mention
or distinguish those cases at all. Instead, it leaned on the general notion
(from other circuits or district courts) that single-victim scenarios are
viewed with skepticism. By doing so, the court arguably gave controlling
weight to non-controlling authorities while ignoring its own circuit’s
teachings. For example, the First Circuit in DeMauro v. DeMauro held that a
scheme to hide assets in a divorce (one victim, one scheme) did not meet
RICO’s pattern jhany.com , and the Sixth Circuit in Moon v. Harrison Piping
likewise rejected a RICO claim in a single-victim fraud scenario jhany.com
jhany.com . Those cases align with the outcome the judge reached. But the
Tenth Circuit’s stance (Torwest, Condict, Edwards) provides a more nuanced
rule: the key is whether the scheme is truly terminated or not. Edwards, for
instance, allowed that a fraudulent loan scheme aimed at one victim could
satisfy continuity because it entailed multiple fraudulent transactions and no
clear finite duration (the defendant kept the victim in the dark over time). By

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
not addressing these, the judge may have misapplied the law by defaulting
to a stricter pattern test than the Tenth Circuit actually requires. In essence,
the court treated “single victim + single scheme” as automatically “no
pattern,” whereas Tenth Circuit law says not necessarily, if there’s open-
ended conduct. This is a legal error in applying the continuity requirement.
5. Manifesting Disfavor of Domestic RICO in Lieu of Analysis – It is worth
noting that courts are often hostile to using RICO in domestic disputes
(indeed RICO has been called the “litigation equivalent of a thermonuclear
device” and not intended for garden-variety fraud jhany.com jhany.com ).
The district judge’s remarks and choice of citations suggest he shared this
skepticism. While that wariness is understandable, it cannot replace the
required legal analysis. The continuity inquiry must be done on the facts and
law, not on a generalized distaste. If the judge’s dismissal stemmed from a
belief that “this is just a divorce squabble, not the stuff of RICO,” then he
effectively applied a heightened threshold for pattern that is not in the
statute. The proper approach is to apply the same continuity test as in any
case. The Tenth Circuit has reversed dismissals where district courts took
too narrow a view of continuity at the pleading stage. For example, in
George v. Urban Settlement Services, 833 F.3d 1242 (10th Cir. 2016), the
Tenth Circuit allowed a RICO claim to proceed, emphasizing that at Rule
12(b)(6) the court must accept the pleaded pattern (multiple homeowners
allegedly defrauded in loan modifications) as true. Here, the district court
did not fully accept the pleaded pattern, instead substituting its judgment
that the scenario was too isolated. This is a misapplication of the Rule 12
standard and RICO’s continuity test. In sum, the court applied the continuity
requirement too restrictively, focusing on what was achieved rather than
what was alleged to be ongoing. It failed to follow the flexible, case-by-case
approach mandated by H.J. Inc. and Tenth Circuit precedent. The order
essentially short-circuited the continuity analysis by concluding the scheme
was over, without evaluating the well-pleaded risk of future acts. As the
reconsideration motion put it, “the court’s order did not engage with the
complaint’s detailed allegations of ongoing threats, communications, and
litigation, nor did it consider whether these allegations, taken as true,
plausibly established a threat of continued racketeering activity.” Instead,
the court “dismissed the complaint based on a narrow reading of the
scheme’s objectives and an unduly rigid application of the continuity
requirement.”. This is precisely the kind of misapplication that higher courts
often correct on appeal. Predicate Acts and Pleading Sufficiency While the
continuity issue was the primary basis for dismissal, we briefly address
whether the court misapplied standards related to the predicate acts
themselves (apart from continuity). A RICO claim only survives if at least
two predicate acts of racketeering are adequately alleged (18 U.S.C. §
1961(5)). Here, the FAC alleged numerous acts (wire frauds, Travel Act
violations, etc.). The district court’s order did not explicitly hold that any
specific predicate was inadequately pled; however, there are a few points to
examine: Predicate Legality: One concern in such cases is whether all
alleged acts qualify as RICO predicates under the statute. Not all bad acts or
frauds are RICO predicates – the act must be indictable under one of the
enumerated crimes (mail/wire fraud, interstate travel in aid of racketeering,
extortion, etc.). The FAC explicitly grounded the racketeering acts in wire
fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343) and Travel Act violations (18 U.S.C. § 1952). Wire
fraud is a classic RICO predicate. The FAC described a scheme to defraud

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Plaintiff of money and property (marital funds, business assets) by false
pretenses, and interstate wire communications used to execute it (texts,
phone calls, and the electronic transfer). Those allegations, if true, satisfy
the elements of wire fraud. The Travel Act violation is a bit more complex – §
1952 requires interstate travel or use of interstate facilities with intent to
promote or carry on certain “unlawful activity” (like crimes of violence,
gambling, drug trafficking, or bribery/extortion in violation of state law). The
FAC seems to posit that Defendants traveled across state lines to further a
fraudulent scheme (forging court documents, etc.), which could potentially
fall under Travel Act if the underlying conduct violates state fraud or
obstruction laws. Admittedly, courts might scrutinize whether that fits a
defined unlawful activity (fraud generally can qualify if it involves bribery or
extortion, but perjury or filing false papers might not be enumerated). The
district judge did not explicitly dissect this in the order. If he had concerns
that, say, perjury in a state court affidavit isn’t a RICO predicate (it isn’t, as
neither perjury nor state-court fraud on the court are listed predicates), he
might have discounted those allegations and focused only on wire fraud
acts. This could implicitly reduce the count of predicates. However, even just
counting the wire fraud instances, the FAC had multiple: the $1,576 transfer,
the deception via phone/text on Dec. 14–16, 2023, and potentially every use
of interstate wires in furtherance of the scheme. Thus, at least two predicate
acts were well-pled. The court did not find otherwise – it did not dismiss for
failure to plead fraud with particularity or failure to state the elements of
wire fraud. Thus, no controlling precedent on the definition of predicate acts
appears to have been misapplied in the sense of rejecting a valid predicate.
The error was not recognizing the pattern those acts could form. Predicate
Particularity and Detail: As discussed, the FAC was detailed. If the court had
thought the allegations were too conclusory or lacking detail, it likely would
have dismissed on Rule 9(b) grounds. It did not, indicating the predicate act
pleadings were deemed sufficient in isolation. Nonetheless, one might
wonder if the court implicitly demanded more “independent” predicate acts
– i.e., perhaps viewing all the communications and the transfer as part of
one scheme (which is acceptable) but not seeing multiple distinct crimes.
This relates back to continuity: sometimes courts mistakenly conflate
“multiple predicates” with “multiple schemes.” The law only requires two
predicates related to each other, which was met here. But because the judge
saw one scheme, he may have downplayed the fact that within that scheme,
there were numerous criminal acts. This is a subtle point: some courts
(especially in the Seventh Circuit historically) have looked askance at a
complaint that technically alleges two acts but those acts are very closely
tied (e.g. sending two fraudulent letters as part of one contract – technically
two mail fraud predicates, but one scheme). However, Sedima and H.J. Inc.
caution that while two acts are necessary, they “may not be sufficient” –
what’s more important is that they show the likelihood of continued
racketeering. The district court here followed that guidance in spirit by
probing continuity; it did not hang its hat on there being fewer than two
acts. So we cannot fault the court on the count of predicates. Nonetheless,
the court failed to “credit the complaint’s allegations” in a broader sense –
not just of ongoing threat, but also of ongoing harm and causation. The FAC
claimed that Defendants’ conduct had caused over $100k in business losses
and would continue to harm Plaintiff’s business/property if unchecked. The
order did not address this claimed ongoing injury, likely because it never

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
reached the damages element after dismissing on pattern. But this is part of
the RICO claim’s plausibility: showing that the predicate acts led to a
continuing injury can reinforce that the pattern is not isolated. The Second
Circuit’s recent decision in Alix v. McKinsey & Co. exemplifies a more
forgiving approach at the pleading stage on such issues. In Alix, the plaintiff
alleged a long-running scheme by McKinsey to defraud bankruptcy courts
and harm competitors. The district court had dismissed for failure to
adequately plead proximate causation and continuity, but the Second Circuit
reversed, emphasizing a “flexible, fact-intensive approach” and cautioning
against stringent requirements at the Rule 12 stage. The Second Circuit
noted that a plaintiff is not required to prove their case with detailed market
analyses or pinpointed damages at the pleading stage; it was enough to
plausibly allege injury and a pattern of racketeering over time. In our case,
the district court failed to apply a similar flexibility. By requiring a clear
showing of a fully realized pattern (when the allegations were that the
pattern was ongoing), the court set the bar too high for a complaint. The
Alix court’s perspective is that RICO’s pattern and causation elements often
involve fact questions inappropriate for dismissal. The Tenth Circuit, while
not bound by Alix, has shown a comparable reluctance to terminate
potentially meritorious RICO claims prematurely. For instance, in George v.
Urban Settlement, the Tenth Circuit allowed the case to proceed where the
complaint described a scheme affecting many borrowers – it was content to
find the pattern adequately pled without demanding absolute certainty of
continued acts, focusing instead on plausibility. In conclusion on predicate
acts: The district court did not explicitly err on any specific predicate’s legal
sufficiency, but it arguably erred by viewing the predicate acts in isolation
rather than as part of a continuing pattern. It saw, for example, the later
threatening communications as separate personal vendettas (not indictable
acts) and thus disregarded them, rather than considering if they could be
part of an ongoing scheme involving predicate acts (for example, one could
argue those threats might constitute extortion or coercion related to the
scheme, but the FAC didn’t label them as such). At the least, they evidenced
the enterprise hadn’t disbanded. The court’s unwillingness to count
anything beyond the December 2023 acts toward the pattern essentially
“froze” the predicate list at a few points in time and excluded context that
gave those predicates continuity. This, combined with the missteps on
continuity law, led to dismissal. Circuit Split on RICO Continuity (Single
Victim Schemes & Ongoing Litigation) The question of what amounts to a
RICO pattern – particularly whether a single scheme, possibly with a single
victim and single goal, can ever meet the continuity requirement – has been
a point of divergence among the circuits. Below is a comparison of the Tenth
Circuit’s approach with those of the Second, Ninth, and Seventh Circuits
(and others by extension): Tenth Circuit: The Tenth Circuit’s doctrine, as
noted, does not impose a multiple-victim or multiple-scheme requirement.
From early on (Torwest, Condict) through later cases (Tal, Stone), the Tenth
Circuit has maintained that the core inquiry is continuity/threat, not sheer
numerosity of schemes or victims. In practice, the Tenth Circuit has
sometimes affirmed dismissals of single-scheme cases (e.g., Sil-Flo, Inc. v.
SFHC, Inc., 917 F.2d 1507 (10th Cir. 1990), where a one-event breach of
contract scheme was held insufficient), but it has left open that if the
scheme is ongoing or of long duration, RICO can apply even with one victim.
The Tenth Circuit is generally consistent with the Supreme Court’s view – it

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
looks for either a series of acts over a substantial period or an open threat.
In Tal, for example, the court found no pattern where defendants’ alleged
fraud to acquire land was all part of one real estate project that had a
natural end-point (once they got the land, the scheme was over). But
crucially, Tal reaffirmed that if the scheme were open-ended (if, say, the
defendants intended to defraud others or keep defrauding the plaintiff
indefinitely), it would be different. The Tenth Circuit therefore does not
differ markedly from mainstream RICO law; any difference lies in how
strictly a given panel views the facts. Second Circuit: The Second Circuit
tends to be relatively plaintiff-friendly on RICO (within reason). The Alix
case (2d Cir. 2022) is a prime example. There, one could characterize the
scheme as having a single ultimate victim (the plaintiff’s consulting
business) and a specific goal (winning consulting engagements via
undisclosed conflicts in bankruptcy court). The Second Circuit vacated the
dismissal, indicating that schemes involving ongoing fraudulent litigation
tactics can satisfy open-ended continuity. The Second Circuit emphasized
context: because the alleged racketeering involved corruption of the judicial
process over multiple bankruptcy cases, it viewed it as inherently open-
ended and injurious to others (courts, competitors, etc.), not a one-off. Even
in single-victim cases, the Second Circuit has recognized that repeated
efforts to harm that victim can constitute a pattern if they extend over time
or threaten to recur. For example, in GICC Capital Corp. v. Tech. Finance
Group, 67 F.3d 463 (2d Cir. 1995), the Second Circuit found no continuity
where defendants had looted a company in a short time and the scheme had
a natural end (once the company’s assets were gone, it was over). But in
contrast, in U.S. v. Indelicato, 865 F.2d 1370 (2d Cir. 1989) (en banc), the
court allowed that even three murders in one night (seemingly a short burst
of crime) could satisfy continuity because they were part of the Mafia’s
ongoing activity. The Second Circuit thus looks at the broader context – is
this part of regular criminal conduct or an open possibility of repetition? In
litigation-related RICO cases like Alix, the Second Circuit appears to accept
that ongoing litigation can supply the continuity, especially if future court
filings or proceedings could be corrupted. This is directly relevant to our
case, where ongoing litigation is the environment for potential repeated
fraud. The district court’s view in Myers (that litigation fraud is a closed
scheme) contrasts with the Second Circuit’s more flexible view (that
litigation can be a vehicle for continuous fraud). Thus, the Second Circuit
likely would have viewed Plaintiff’s allegations more favorably – as
potentially establishing open-ended continuity given the pending divorce
trial and the pattern of misconduct leading up to it. Ninth Circuit: The Ninth
Circuit historically had some rigid formulations (at one point suggesting that
acts over less than a year might not suffice), but after H.J. Inc., it adjusted to
a fact-based approach. In Allwaste, Inc. v. Hecht, 65 F.3d 1523 (9th Cir.
1995), the Ninth Circuit explicitly rejected the idea of a minimum one-year
rule for continuity, calling for a “flexible continuity requirement” case-
law.vlex.com . The court held that closed-ended continuity could be shown
without a full year if the facts warrant, and that open-ended continuity can
exist even if the scheme lasted only a short time, provided there is a threat
of repetition case-law.vlex.com case-law.vlex.com . The Ninth Circuit’s test
for open-ended continuity is whether the predicates “specifically threaten
repetition” or “became the regular way of doing business” of the enterprise
case-law.vlex.com case-law.vlex.com . Notably, the Ninth Circuit does not

=== PAGE 18 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
require multiple schemes – it has said a “single scheme can suffice” so long
as the other continuity criteria are met (United Energy Owners v. U.S.
Energy Mgmt. Sys., 837 F.2d 356 (9th Cir. 1988)). In fact, a recent Ninth
Circuit-affiliated case (tried before an 11th Cir. court but reflecting similar
principles) involved a vendetta against a single person’s business: a
defendant ran a smear campaign via email and websites to destroy a
competitor’s business over more than a year. Even though it was one target,
the behavior was continuous until stopped by lawsuit, and the court found
that “a scheme directed at one person, with the goal of destroying his
business prospects, presented a threat of continued racketeering activity
extending indefinitely into the future” jhany.com jhany.com . This so-called
“vendetta exception” demonstrates an understanding that a personal
vendetta can still be a RICO pattern if it’s sustained and open-ended. The
Ninth Circuit would likely ask: Were Defendants here engaging in acts that
could repeat as long as the divorce dispute continued? If yes, that’s open-
ended continuity. Given the FAC, the answer is yes – Defendants had already
allegedly committed multiple fraudulent acts (fake filings, interstate fraud,
etc.) and threatened more. The Ninth Circuit’s approach thus leans toward
finding a pattern where an enterprise’s conduct is ongoing or could
continue. It likely would not automatically bar a divorce-fraud scheme from
RICO if, for example, the fraud encompassed multiple steps (phony
affidavits, hidden assets, intimidation) over the course of the case and
possibly beyond. In contrast, many courts (like the Sixth Circuit in Bachi-
Reffitt jhany.com jhany.com , or the First Circuit in DeMauro jhany.com )
reflexively rule out divorce disputes as RICO patterns. The Ninth Circuit
would examine the facts more closely for threat of repetition. So the Ninth
Circuit’s standard is largely consistent with the Tenth’s on paper (both
follow H.J. Inc.), but in practice the Ninth may be more open to letting a jury
decide continuity in close cases. The district court in our case arguably took
a more restrictive stance than the Ninth’s approach allows. Seventh Circuit:
The Seventh Circuit has historically been one of the strictest circuits on
RICO’s pattern element. It developed the idea of a “single scheme/single
injury” exclusion in many cases during the 1980s. The Seventh Circuit often
asks whether the case involves “one transaction” or “one event” that caused
a single harm – if so, it’s usually not a RICO pattern law.justia.com
law.justia.com . A classic formulation from the Seventh Circuit is: “when a
case involves only one transaction resulting in one injury, no matter how
great, the continuity element is not satisfied.” law.justia.com . They have a
string of cases illustrating this: e.g., Jones v. Lampe, 845 F.2d 755 (7th Cir.
1988) (fraudulent loan inducement – one loan = no pattern); Marks v.
Pannell Kerr Forster, 811 F.2d 1108 (7th Cir. 1987) (one “one-shot” effort to
defraud = no pattern) law.justia.com law.justia.com . The Seventh Circuit
requires some “threat of continuing activity”, which usually means either
multiple distinct injuries or a prolonged series of acts. To be fair, the
Seventh Circuit acknowledges that a single victim or scheme can still have
continuity in the right circumstances – they gave an example: “an ongoing
scheme to defraud a supplier on a series of shipments under one contract
could qualify as a pattern… multiple harms likely to be repeated.”
law.justia.com . So if the scheme causes repeated harm or consists of
repeated acts (even if one victim), that can suffice. In our case, one could
argue the scheme did cause multiple harms (loss of money, loss of home,
legal fees, business losses, etc.) and was poised to cause more. However, the

=== PAGE 19 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
general attitude of the Seventh Circuit is skeptical of converting what looks
like a single episodic fraud (even if that episode has several steps) into a
RICO claim. If this case were in the Seventh Circuit, the plaintiff would face
an uphill battle. The divorce fraud scenario is precisely the kind of case the
Seventh Circuit has often said belongs in state court for fraud, not in federal
court for RICO. In fact, the Sixth Circuit in Bachi-Reffitt (2020) cited an
“almost unanimous” consensus, referencing the Seventh Circuit’s stance,
that concealment of assets in a divorce is not a RICO pattern jhany.com
jhany.com . The district court’s reasoning in our case is very much in line
with the Seventh (and Sixth) Circuit’s restrictive view – focusing on single
victim, single scheme, limited duration, hence no pattern jhany.com
jhany.com . Consistency or Difference? The Tenth Circuit’s standards in
theory are consistent with those of the Second and Ninth Circuits, as all rely
on H.J. Inc. and require a fact-based continuity inquiry. The Tenth Circuit has
even cited Second Circuit cases (like Schrag v. Dinges, D. Kan.) on
relationship, and vice versa, showing general harmony. However, there can
be a difference in emphasis: The Tenth Circuit, like most, is cautious about
RICO overreach, but it explicitly allows open-ended continuity in single-
victim cases if the threat continues. The Second and Ninth likewise allow it
and perhaps are more inclined to find a threat (as seen in Alix and the
vendetta case). The Seventh Circuit remains an outlier in its strictness, often
effectively requiring either multiple schemes or a very prolonged series of
acts. In practical terms, the district court in this case applied something
closer to the Seventh Circuit’s restrictive pattern doctrine, whereas the
Plaintiff’s position (on continuity and ongoing litigation) aligns more with
the Second Circuit’s and a fair reading of Tenth Circuit precedent. Indeed,
Plaintiff’s motion argued that the Tenth Circuit’s approach is “consistent
with Supreme Court precedent” and not as rigid as the Seventh’s, noting
that the negative treatment of some older Tenth cases (like Condict) by
other courts does not change controlling law. The circuit split essentially
boils down to how flexibly a court will interpret continuity in close cases.
The Tenth Circuit’s own decisions can be read as moderate: they will reject a
RICO claim if it truly appears to be a “one-shot, finite” scheme (as the
district judge believed this was), but they also warn not to dismiss if there’s
any real ongoing threat. Given this split, if Plaintiff appeals, a key argument
will be that the district court adopted a de facto Seventh/Sixth Circuit rule
(no RICO for one-victim divorce fraud) instead of the Tenth Circuit’s more
nuanced rule. The Tenth Circuit on appeal would likely clarify that ongoing
litigation and unfulfilled objectives can indeed establish a pattern
(consistent with its earlier Torwest/Edwards holdings and with H.J. Inc.) –
thus indicating the district court erred. If, however, the Tenth Circuit feels
this case is more like Sil-Flo or TLF, Inc. v. Without Limits Trucking, Inc.,
2022 WL 17260807 (10th Cir. 2022) (hypothetical example), where
everything was essentially done and dusted in one scheme, they might
affirm. But importantly, nothing in Tenth Circuit law requires multiple
victims or a long timeframe if open-ended continuity is present. The district
court’s insistence on a narrow view was not compelled by Tenth Circuit
precedent; in fact it seems at odds with some of it. Single Victim and
Ongoing Litigation – There is a nascent legal question whether ongoing
litigation fraud can count as open-ended continuity or is deemed inherently
terminable once the case ends. Some courts (as we saw) say once the case
ends, it was one scheme. Others say, but if at filing it hadn’t ended, that’s

=== PAGE 20 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
open-ended. The Tenth Circuit hasn’t squarely ruled on a divorce-fraud-as-
RICO scenario in a published opinion. If this goes up, the Tenth Circuit’s
decision could either align with the majority that such domestic disputes
aren’t RICO (thus leaning toward the Seventh/Sixth view), or it could align
with the logic used in Alix and by the district court in Fisher Sand & Gravel,
finding that litigation can harbor ongoing racketeering (especially if public
institutions like courts are misused – something the Second Circuit found
significant). The consistent thread in Tenth Circuit law is flexibility and a
“common-sense approach to RICO’s pattern element”. The district court’s
ruling did not reflect that flexibility. Instead, as one analysis summarized,
“the court’s analysis was overly rigid and did not fully consider the broader,
ongoing nature of the alleged enterprise,” failing to apply the “flexible,
context-sensitive approach to continuity” endorsed by other courts.
Conclusion The district court’s orders (Docs. 29 & 33) demonstrate an
overly restrictive view of RICO’s continuity requirement and a failure to
credit key allegations that, if accepted, satisfy RICO’s pattern element. The
judge overlooked material facts showing that the alleged racketeering
enterprise was ongoing and poised to continue harming the plaintiff. By
treating the scheme’s initial success as the end of the story, the court
ignored the “enterprise’s broader goal—fraudulent disposition of property
through the divorce—[which] remain[ed] unachieved” and the attendant
“risk of further predicate acts” as the litigation proceeded. This was a
significant oversight, as those facts directly implicate open-ended continuity.
The court also misapplied controlling precedent, effectively substituting a
rigid single-scheme rule for the required fact-intensive analysis. Under H.J.
Inc., Stone, Tal, and other binding cases, the presence of an ongoing threat
(which the FAC plausibly alleged) should have been addressed and likely
found sufficient. Instead, the court adopted a stance akin to the most
restrictive circuits, where one victim/one scheme cases are categorically
dismissed – a stance not actually mandated by the Tenth Circuit. In doing so,
the court prematurely terminated a plausible RICO claim that had alleged an
eighteen-month pattern of related acts and a continuing enterprise. On
appeal, the Tenth Circuit will review the dismissal de novo and must take
the FAC’s allegations as true. It will likely examine whether the complaint,
as pleaded, “plausibly supports a claim of open-ended continuity and a
pattern of racketeering activity, which the district court did not address.”
Given that the FAC alleges ongoing communications, threats, and a not-yet-
fulfilled fraudulent objective, there is a strong argument that the district
court erred in holding no pattern was shown. The Tenth Circuit’s own
precedent supports a more nuanced approach than the one the district court
took, and it has not foreclosed RICO liability in situations where “the
scheme’s objective remains unfulfilled at the time of suit” and a “threat of
continued racketeering activity” is present. In contrast, the Seventh
Circuit’s stricter pattern test (which the district court functionally applied)
is not the law of the Tenth Circuit. In summary, the judge failed to apply the
“flexible, context-sensitive approach” required for RICO continuity. He
discounted ongoing conduct as unrelated and confined the pattern analysis
to a narrow timeframe, thus overlooking both critical facts (continued
racketeering activity) and controlling law (open-ended continuity doctrine).
This misapplication led to the erroneous dismissal of a complaint that, if all
allegations are credited, “plausibly alleged a pattern of racketeering activity
and a threat of continued criminal conduct.”. The circuit split analysis

=== PAGE 21 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
further shows that the district court’s approach aligns with the most
restrictive view (Seventh Circuit), whereas the Tenth Circuit’s actual
standards – in line with the Second and Ninth – are more accommodating of
the kind of ongoing scheme Plaintiff alleged. Therefore, unless the Tenth
Circuit chooses to adopt a more rigid stance, the district court’s decision
seems at odds with prevailing RICO jurisprudence and the dismissal should
be reconsidered or reversed to allow the case to proceed on the merits.
Sources: The analysis above is supported by the FAC and motion record in
Myers v. Branthoover, which highlight the allegations the court failed to
address, and by comparing relevant case law: H.J. Inc., 492 U.S. at 241–42
(continuity can be open-ended); Resolution Trust Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d at
1543 (10th Cir. 1993) (threat of continuity suffices); Tal v. Hogan, 453 F.3d at
1267–68 (10th Cir. 2006) (scheme with unfulfilled goal can be continuous);
Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick, 810 F.2d at 928 (10th Cir. 1987) (one-victim open-
ended scheme meets continuity); Condict v. Condict, 826 F.2d at 927 (10th
Cir. 1987) (same); compare Garman v. Zulke, 952 F.2d 1398 (7th Cir. 1992)
(single transaction & injury = no pattern) law.justia.com , and Bachi-Reffitt
v. Reffitt, 2020 U.S. App. LEXIS 3813 (6th Cir. 2020) (divorce asset
concealment not a RICO pattern) jhany.com , with Alix v. McKinsey & Co., 23
F.4th 196 (2d Cir. 2022) (flexible approach at pleading stage; ongoing court-
fraud scheme survives dismissal), and Allwaste, Inc. v. Hecht, 65 F.3d 1523
(9th Cir. 1995) (no bright-line one-year rule; open-ended continuity is fact-
specific) case-law.vlex.com . The district court’s oversight of the FAC’s
paragraphs alleging continuing racketeering (e.g. FAC ¶ 49–54, ¶ 86(ii)) is
evident from the record, and its misapplication of law is evidenced by its
exclusive reliance on the single scheme/single victim theory while ignoring
authority that contradicts that theory. Each of these points underscores that
the court’s rejection of Plaintiff’s RICO claim was not grounded in a full
appraisal of the facts and law, and thus was likely erroneous
Answer (Tenth Circuit)
Short response
The district court’s dismissal of the RICO claim in Myers v. Branthoover
appears to have applied an unduly restrictive interpretation of the continuity
requirement, overlooking key factual allegations and controlling Tenth
Circuit precedent that allow for open-ended continuity even in single-victim,
ongoing litigation scenarios. There is a strong argument that the court failed
to credit well-pleaded facts and misapplied the law, and that a more flexible,
fact-intensive approach—consistent with Tenth Circuit and Supreme Court
authority—should have allowed the claim to proceed.
Summary
The district court dismissed the RICO claim on the grounds that the alleged
racketeering activity was a single, completed scheme with a narrow
purpose, and thus did not satisfy the continuity requirement necessary for a
RICO “pattern.” However, the complaint alleged ongoing conduct, including
continued threats and communications, and an unfulfilled objective (the

=== PAGE 22 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
outcome of the divorce litigation), which, under Tenth Circuit law, can
support a finding of open-ended continuity if there is a plausible threat of
future racketeering activity.
The court’s analysis did not fully engage with these allegations or with
binding precedent that recognizes open-ended continuity in cases where the
scheme’s goal remains unachieved at the time of suit and further predicate
acts are likely. The Tenth Circuit’s approach, as articulated in cases like 
Resolution Trust Corp. v. Stone, Tal v. Hogan, and Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick,
is more flexible than the district court’s application, and the court’s failure
to apply this standard or to address the totality of the circumstances
constitutes reversible error.
Background and Relevant Law
RICO’s Pattern and Continuity Requirements
To state a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), a plaintiff must allege
(1) conduct, (2) of an enterprise, (3) through a pattern, (4) of racketeering
activity. The “pattern” element requires at least two predicate acts that are
related and that amount to, or pose a threat of, continued criminal activity.
This “continuity plus relationship” test is well established in Supreme Court
and Tenth Circuit precedent, and continuity can be shown in two ways:
closed-ended (a series of related acts over a substantial period) or open-
ended (conduct that, by its nature, threatens repetition in the future)
(Resolution Trust Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d 1534, 1543 (10th Cir. 1993); Tal v.
Hogan, 453 F.3d 1244, 1267–68 (10th Cir. 2006); Suddath v. Oklahome
Homebuilders, LLC, CIV-24-745-SLP (W.D. Okla. Nov 08, 2024)).
Closed-ended continuity generally requires a series of related predicates
over a “substantial period of time,” but acts over only a few weeks or
months, with no threat of future repetition, are insufficient (Resolution Trust
Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d at 1543). Open-ended continuity, on the other hand,
may be established by showing that the predicate acts involve a distinct
threat of long-term racketeering activity, or that they are a regular way of
conducting the defendant’s ongoing business or the RICO enterprise (Tal v.
Hogan, 453 F.3d at 1267–68; Schrag v. Dinges, 788 F.Supp. 1543, 1550 (D.
Kan. 1992)).
The Tenth Circuit has recognized that even a single scheme involving one
victim can satisfy the continuity requirement if it contemplates open-ended
fraudulent activity and does not have a single goal that, when achieved, will
bring the activity to an end (Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick, 810 F.2d 925, 928–29
(10th Cir. 1987); Condict v. Condict, 826 F.2d 923, 927 (10th Cir. 1987)).
However, if the scheme is truly isolated and complete, with no threat of
ongoing conduct, continuity is lacking (Edwards v. First Nat. Bank,
Bartlesville, Oklahoma, 872 F.2d 347, 351 (10th Cir. 1989)).

=== PAGE 23 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Pleading Standards
At the motion to dismiss stage, the court must accept all well-pleaded facts
as true and draw all reasonable inferences in the plaintiff’s favor (Cory v.
Bailey, CIVIL ACTION No. 14-1258-MLB (D. Kan. Mar 31, 2015)). Conclusory
allegations are disregarded, but detailed factual allegations supporting the
elements of a RICO claim must be credited.
Analysis
The District Court’s Approach
The district court dismissed the RICO claim, finding that the alleged
racketeering activity was a single, completed scheme with a narrow purpose
—removing Plaintiff from the home and defrauding him in the divorce—and
that any subsequent conduct was unrelated retaliation or harassment, not
part of an ongoing racketeering enterprise (Myers v. Branthoover,
CIV-24-1311-R (W.D. Okla. Oct 14, 2025)). The court relied on cases such as 
Skurkey v. Daniel to support the proposition that schemes with a single,
narrow purpose, few participants, and a single victim do not satisfy RICO’s
continuity requirement.
However, the complaint alleged that the scheme’s broader objective—
fraudulently obtaining favorable property and legal outcomes in the ongoing
divorce—remained unachieved at the time of suit, and that Defendants
continued to engage in threatening and deceptive conduct, including
interstate communications and the use of fraudulent documents, well after
the initial eviction. The complaint also alleged that further predicate acts
were likely as the divorce case moved toward trial.
Overlooked Material Allegations
The district court’s order did not fully address these allegations, particularly
those describing continued threats and communications through mid-2025
and the explicit assertion that the enterprise was still operating during the
pending litigation. The court instead treated the scheme as having ended
with Plaintiff’s removal from the home, failing to consider whether the
ongoing litigation and unfulfilled objectives created a plausible threat of
continued racketeering activity.
Tenth Circuit precedent requires a holistic, fact-intensive approach to
continuity, considering the totality of the circumstances, including the
number and variety of predicate acts, the length of time involved, the
number of victims, the presence of separate schemes, and the nature of the
enterprise (Resolution Trust Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d at 1543; Tal v. Hogan,
453 F.3d at 1267–68). No single factor is dispositive, and the pattern
requirement is meant to ensure that the alleged conduct is the sort of
ongoing criminal activity RICO was designed to address.
The court’s failure to credit the complaint’s allegations of ongoing conduct
and unachieved objectives, and its focus on a “primary objective” that had

=== PAGE 24 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
allegedly been achieved, is inconsistent with this flexible, context-sensitive
approach. The Tenth Circuit has expressly recognized that open-ended
continuity may be found where a scheme’s goal remains unfulfilled at the
time of suit and further predicate acts are likely (Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick,
810 F.2d at 928–29; Condict v. Condict, 826 F.2d at 927).
Application of Open-Ended Continuity
Open-ended continuity can be established if the predicate acts pose a
distinct threat of long-term racketeering activity or are a regular way of
conducting the defendant’s ongoing business or the RICO enterprise
(Resolution Trust Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d at 1543). The complaint in Myers
alleged that the enterprise’s conduct had not ceased, that the divorce
litigation was ongoing, and that there remained a real risk of continued
fraud (such as perjury in court filings or additional wire fraud) to achieve the
unfulfilled goal of stripping Plaintiff of assets via the divorce.
The Tenth Circuit has made clear that continuity must be evaluated as of the
time the complaint is filed, not in hindsight after the fact (Resolution Trust
Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d at 1543). If, at the time of filing, the scheme is
ongoing or threatens future harm, open-ended continuity may exist even if
the past acts cover a short duration. The district court’s failure to address
this timing nuance, and its focus on the achievement of an interim objective,
constitutes legal error.
Circuit Splits and Comparative Approaches
There is a recognized split among the circuits regarding the application of
the continuity requirement in single-victim or single-scheme cases. The
Tenth Circuit, consistent with the Supreme Court’s guidance in H.J. Inc.,
does not require multiple victims or multiple schemes if the threat of
ongoing racketeering activity is present (Resolution Trust Corp. v. Stone,
998 F.2d at 1543; Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick, 810 F.2d at 928–29). The
Second and Ninth Circuits similarly allow for open-ended continuity in
ongoing litigation or vendetta scenarios, while the Seventh Circuit has taken
a more restrictive approach, often requiring multiple schemes or a
prolonged series of acts.
The district court’s analysis in Myers appears to align more closely with the
Seventh Circuit’s restrictive view, rather than the Tenth Circuit’s more
flexible, fact-intensive approach. This is evident in the court’s reliance on
cases emphasizing the difficulty of establishing continuity in single-victim,
single-scheme scenarios, and its failure to address Tenth Circuit authority
recognizing open-ended continuity in ongoing schemes.
Pleading Sufficiency and Predicate Acts
The complaint in Myers alleged multiple predicate acts, including wire fraud
and violations of the Travel Act, with specific details regarding dates,
communications, and transactions. The district court did not find that any
specific predicate act was inadequately pled, nor did it dismiss the claim for

=== PAGE 25 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
failure to plead fraud with particularity. The primary basis for dismissal was
the court’s view that the alleged conduct did not amount to a pattern of
racketeering activity due to a lack of continuity.
At the motion to dismiss stage, the court is required to accept all well-
pleaded facts as true and draw all reasonable inferences in the plaintiff’s
favor (Cory v. Bailey, CIVIL ACTION No. 14-1258-MLB (D. Kan. Mar 31,
2015)). The court’s failure to do so, and its dismissal of the complaint based
on a narrow reading of the scheme’s objectives and an unduly rigid
application of the continuity requirement, is inconsistent with the applicable
pleading standards.
Exceptions and Caveats
It is important to note that while the Tenth Circuit allows for open-ended
continuity in single-victim, ongoing litigation scenarios, courts are generally
cautious about extending RICO to domestic disputes or cases involving a
single, finite objective. The complaint must plausibly allege a threat of
continued racketeering activity, and conclusory allegations or speculative
threats are insufficient (Suddath v. Oklahome Homebuilders, LLC,
CIV-24-745-SLP (W.D. Okla. Nov 08, 2024); Skurkey v. Daniel).
Additionally, some older Tenth Circuit cases, such as Condict v. Condict, 815
F.2d 579 (10th Cir. 1987), have been stated as superseded by later authority,
but the core principle that open-ended schemes can satisfy continuity
remains valid in subsequent Tenth Circuit decisions.
Conclusion
The district court’s dismissal of the RICO claim in Myers v. Branthoover was
based on an unduly restrictive interpretation of the continuity requirement,
overlooking key factual allegations and controlling Tenth Circuit precedent
that allow for open-ended continuity in ongoing, single-victim schemes. The
court failed to credit well-pleaded facts indicating that the enterprise’s
objective remained unachieved at the time of suit and that further predicate
acts were likely as the divorce litigation continued. The Tenth Circuit’s
flexible, fact-intensive approach to continuity, as articulated in cases like 
Resolution Trust Corp. v. Stone, Tal v. Hogan, and Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick,
supports the argument that the complaint plausibly alleged a pattern of
racketeering activity and a threat of continued criminal conduct. The district
court’s failure to apply this standard or to address the totality of the
circumstances constitutes reversible error, and the dismissal should be
reconsidered or reversed to allow the claim to proceed on the merits.
Legal Authorities
Cory v. Bailey, CIVIL ACTION No. 14-1258-MLB (D. Kan. Mar 31, 2015)
U.S. District Court — District of Kansas

=== PAGE 26 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
To withstand a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim, a complaint
must contain enough allegations of fact to state a claim to relief that is
plausible on its face. Robbins v. Oklahoma, 519 F.3d 1242, 1247 (10th Cir.
2008) (citing Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly, 550 U.S. 544, 127 S. Ct. 1955, 1974
(2007)). All well-pleaded facts and the reasonable inferences derived from
those facts are viewed in the light most favorable to plaintiff. Archuleta v.
Wagner, 523 F.3d 1278, 1283 (10th Cir. 2008). Conclusory allegations,
however, have no bearing upon this court's consideration.
Summary
Standard for evaluating a motion to dismiss under Rule 12(b)(6),
emphasizing that a complaint must present a plausible claim for relief based
on well-pleaded facts. This standard is crucial for assessing whether the
district court properly dismissed the RICO claim for failure to state a claim.
The passage also highlights the importance of viewing facts in the light most
favorable to the plaintiff, which is relevant for arguing that the district court
may have improperly dismissed the case by not fully crediting the plaintiff's
allegations of continuity and ongoing threat.
Pti Grp., Inc. v. Gift Card Impressions, LLC, Case No. 14-2063-CM (D. Kan.
Sep 16, 2014)
U.S. District Court — District of Kansas
Extract
To adequately allege a pattern of racketeering activity, a RICO plaintiff must
show (1) a relationship between the predicate acts and (2) the threat of
continuing activity. H.J. Inc. v. NW Bell Tel. Co., 492 U.S. 229, 239 (1989);
Bixler v. Foster, 596 F.3d 751, 761 (10th Cir. 2010) ('To satisfy RICO's
pattern requirement[, a plaintiff must] allege not only that the defendants
had committed two or more predicate acts, but also that the predicates
themselves amount to, or that they otherwise constitute a threat of,
continuing racketeering activity.') (emphasis in original) (citation omitted)).
A plaintiff may demonstrate a threat of continuing activity by establishing
either closed-ended or open-ended continuity, which mean: [C]losed-ended
continuity requires a series of related predicates extending over a
substantial period of time. Predicate acts extending over a few weeks or
months... For purposes of this motion, the court assumes that the actions of
GCI, Mr. Glass, the law firm, and the collectors constituted predicate acts.
But plaintiffs have neither alleged that the acts continued over a substantial
amount of time nor that there is any clear threat of related future criminal
activity. See Boone v. Carlsbad Bancorporation, Inc., 972 F.2d 1545, 1556
(10th Cir. 1992) (explaining that acts extending over 23 months may be a
'substantial period of time' but holding that continuity was not established
because 'the facts as alleged fail to show any threat of 'future criminal
conduct''). At most, plaintiffs have alleged isolated events that are directed

=== PAGE 27 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
at one discrete goal: collecting a debt from GSL. RICO does not cover
actions that will stop once a limited, discrete goal is met.
Summary
Necessity for a RICO plaintiff to demonstrate both a relationship between
predicate acts and a threat of continuing activity. It distinguishes between
closed-ended continuity, which requires a series of related predicates over a
substantial period, and open-ended continuity, which involves a threat of
future criminal conduct. The passage emphasizes that RICO does not cover
actions aimed at achieving a single, discrete goal, as such actions do not
pose a threat of ongoing criminal activity. This aligns with the Tenth Circuit's
approach, which requires more than isolated events directed at a finite
objective to establish a RICO pattern.
Fisher Sand & Gravel Co. v. FNF Constr., Inc., No. 10-cv-0635 RB/SMV (D.
N.M. Mar 27, 2013)
U.S. District Court — District of New Mexico
Extract
Fisher relies on open-ended continuity to prove the 'pattern' element of its
RICO claim. (Doc. 105 at 18). Open-ended continuity depends heavily on the
facts of the case. Resolution Trust Corp., 998 F.2d at 1543. For 12(b)(6)
purposes, open-ended continuity is established if the plaintiff can plausibly
allege 'that there was a threat of continuing criminal activity beyond the
period during which the predicate acts were performed.' Heinrich, 668 F.3d
at 410. The threat of continuing racketeering activity need not be
established exclusively by the predicate acts, and the court should consider
the totality of the circumstances surrounding the commission of the acts. Id.
(citation omitted); see also Tal, 453 F.3d at 1268 (citation omitted).
Summary
Concept of open-ended continuity in RICO claims, emphasizing that it
depends heavily on the facts of the case. It states that for the purposes of a
motion to dismiss under Rule 12(b)(6), open-ended continuity can be
established if the plaintiff plausibly alleges a threat of continuing criminal
activity beyond the period during which the predicate acts were performed.
The court should consider the totality of the circumstances surrounding the
commission of the acts, and the threat of continuing racketeering activity
need not be established exclusively by the predicate acts.
Carlson v. Town of Mountain Vill., Civil Action No. 17-cv-02887-PAB-STV (D.
Colo. Nov 07, 2019)
U.S. District Court — District of Colorado

=== PAGE 28 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
To establish a pattern of racketeering activity, the plaintiff must show both
'relationship' and 'continuity'—i.e., 'that the racketeering predicates are
related, and that they amount to or pose a threat of continued criminal
activity.' H.J. Inc. v. Nw. Bell Tel. Co., 492 U.S. 229, 239 (1989) (emphasis in
original). 'Continuity' is both a closed- and open-ended concept: closed-
ended referring to a closed period of repeated conduct and open-ended
referring to conduct that by its nature projects into the future with a threat
of repetition. Resolution Tr. Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d 1534, 1543 (10th Cir.
1993). 'A party alleging a RICO violation may demonstrate continuity over a
closed period by proving a series of related predicates extending over a
substantial period of time' but '[p]redicate acts extending over a few weeks
or months are insufficient to show closed-ended continuity.' Id. A closed-
ended series of predicate acts is not sufficient to support a finding of a
pattern of racketeering activity, however, where those acts 'constitute[ ] a
single scheme to accomplish 'one discrete goal,' directed at one individual
with no potential to extend to other persons or entities.' SIL-FLO, Inc. v.
SFHC, Inc., 917 F.2d 1507, 1516 (10th Cir. 1990). Open-ended continuity
'may be established by showing that the predicates themselves involve a
distinct threat of long-term racketeering activity, either implicit or explicit,
or that the predicates are a regular way of conducting the defendant's
ongoing legitimate business or the RICO enterprise.' Resolution Tr. Corp.,
998 F.2d at 1543. 'Open-ended continuity requires a clear threat of future
criminal conduct related to past criminal conduct.' Phelps v. Wichita Eagle-
Beacon, 886 F.2d 1262, 1273 (10th Cir. 1989).
Summary
Requirements for establishing a pattern of racketeering activity under RICO,
emphasizing the need for both relationship and continuity among the
predicate acts. It distinguishes between closed-ended and open-ended
continuity, explaining that closed-ended continuity requires a series of
related predicates over a substantial period, while open-ended continuity
involves a threat of future criminal conduct. The passage also highlights that
a single scheme directed at one individual with no potential to extend to
others may not satisfy the continuity requirement.
Resolution Trust Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d 1534 (10th Cir. 1993)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Tenth Circuit
Extract
The Supreme Court has concluded that Congress intended that the pattern
element 'requires the showing of a relationship between the predicates, ...
and the threat of continuing activity'--that is, 'continuity plus relationship.' ...
'Continuity' is both a closed- and open-ended concept: closed-ended
referring to a closed period of repeated conduct and open-ended referring to
conduct that by its nature projects into the future with a threat of

=== PAGE 29 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
repetition. ... A party alleging a RICO violation may demonstrate continuity
over a closed period by proving a series of related predicates extending over
a substantial period of time. ... Open-ended continuity depends upon the
facts of each case, and may be established by showing that the predicates
themselves involve a distinct threat of long-term racketeering activity, either
implicit or explicit, or that the predicates are a regular way of conducting
the defendant's ongoing legitimate business or the RICO enterprise.
Summary
The passage explains the concept of "continuity" in the context of RICO's
pattern requirement. It distinguishes between closed-ended continuity,
which involves a series of related predicate acts over a substantial period,
and open-ended continuity, which involves a threat of ongoing racketeering
activity. The passage emphasizes that continuity is a central element of the
pattern requirement and can be demonstrated by showing either a closed
period of repeated conduct or an ongoing threat of racketeering activity.
Hall v. Doering, 997 F.Supp. 1445 (D. Kan. 1998)
U.S. District Court — District of Kansas
Extract
For these reasons alone, plaintiffs' RICO claims must be dismissed. Even if
plaintiffs had sufficiently alleged a predicate racketeering activity, however,
their RICO claims would fail for other reasons. For example plaintiffs do not
properly allege a 'pattern' of racketeering activity. A 'pattern' presumes
repeated activity, not merely repeated acts to carry out the same scheme.
Meyer, 647 F.Supp. at 974-75; see also Northern Trust Bank/O'Hare v. Inryco
Inc., 615 F.Supp. 828, 831 (N.D.Ill.1985). Plaintiffs allege only repeated acts
to carry out one scheme — ACFG's deprivation of plaintiffs' civil and
property rights—rather than repeated activity. The Supreme Court has held
that to establish a 'pattern' under RICO, a plaintiff must show that the
predicates themselves amount to or otherwise constitute a threat of
continuing racketeering activity.
Summary
The passage from Hall v. Doering provides insight into the Tenth Circuit's
interpretation of what constitutes a "pattern" of racketeering activity under
RICO. It emphasizes that a pattern requires repeated activity, not just
repeated acts to carry out a single scheme. The passage also highlights the
necessity of demonstrating a threat of continuing racketeering activity,
which is crucial for establishing continuity under RICO. This is directly
relevant to the question of whether the appeal should focus on the RICO
continuity issue, as it provides a legal basis for arguing that the district
court may have misapplied the standard for continuity in dismissing the
RICO claim.

=== PAGE 30 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Tal v. Hogan, 453 F.3d 1244 (10th Cir. 2006)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Tenth Circuit
Extract
As a final point, we question whether Plaintiffs' allegations of predicate acts
satisfied the requirement of 'a pattern of racketeering activity.' A 'pattern' of
racketeering is defined as 'at least two acts of racketeering activity,... which
occurred within ten years' of each other. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5). However,
because 'RICO is not aimed at the isolated offender,' Resolution Trust Corp.,
998 F.2d at 1544, proof of two or more predicate acts are not sufficient to
prove a pattern unless there is a relationship between the predicate acts and
a threat of continuing activity. H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Tel. Co., 492
U.S. 229, 239, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989); Duran v. Carris, 238
F.3d 1268, 1271 (10th Cir.2001). Continuity of threat requires both proof of
'a series of related predicates extending over a substantial period of time,'
as well as a 'showing that the predicates themselves involve a distinct threat
of long-term racketeering activity... or that the predicates are a regular way
of conducting the defendant's ongoing legitimate business or the RICO
enterprise.' Resolution Trust Corp., 998 F.2d at 1543. To determine
continuity we examine both the duration of the related predicate acts and
the extensiveness of the RICO enterprise's scheme.
Summary
For a RICO claim to succeed, it is not enough to simply allege two or more
predicate acts. There must be a relationship between these acts and a threat
of continuing activity. The continuity requirement can be satisfied by
showing a series of related predicates over a substantial period or that the
predicates are part of the defendant's regular business conduct. This aligns
with the broader understanding of RICO's purpose to target ongoing
criminal conduct rather than isolated incidents.
Pitts v. Turner and Boisseau Chartered, 850 F.2d 650 (10th Cir. 1988)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Tenth Circuit
Extract
Appellant contends the trial court erred in dismissing his claim under 18
U.S.C. Sec. 1961, et seq. or the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act. In Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick, 810 F.2d 925, 927-929 (10th
Cir.), we discussed what a plaintiff must plead in order to establish a RICO
violation: 'A violation of section 1962(c) thus 'requires (1) conduct (2) of an
enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity.' Sedima,
S.P.R.L. v. Imrex Co., 473 U.S. 479, 105 S.Ct. 3275, 3285, 87 L.Ed.2d 346
(1985). RICO defines racketeering activity as, inter alia, any act that is

=== PAGE 31 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
indictable under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1341 (mail fraud) or 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1343
(wire fraud). See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1961(1)(B). RICO also states that a '"pattern
of racketeering activity" requires at least two acts of racketeering activity.'
18 U.S.C. Sec. 1961(5). ... [T]o establish a RICO pattern, a plaintiff must also
demonstrate continuity, that is, 'the threat of continuing activity.' Sedima,
105 S.Ct. at 3285 n. 14. This element is derived from RICO's legislative
history, which indicates that RICO does not apply to 'sporadic activity' or to
the 'isolated offender'. Id. 'The continuity requirement has been the source
of considerable difficulty. Courts generally agree that to make an adequate
showing of continuity under Sedima, a plaintiff must demonstrate some facts
from which at least a threat of ongoing illegal conduct may be inferred. A
scheme to achieve a single discrete objective does not in and of itself create
a threat of ongoing activity, even when that goal is pursued by multiple
illegal acts, because the scheme ends when the purpose is accomplished.'
Summary
Requirements for establishing a RICO violation, emphasizing the need for
continuity, which is defined as the threat of ongoing illegal conduct. It
highlights that a scheme with a single discrete objective does not inherently
demonstrate continuity, even if pursued through multiple illegal acts,
because the scheme ends once the objective is achieved. This interpretation
is consistent with the Tenth Circuit's approach to RICO cases, as seen in
"Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick."
Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick, 810 F.2d 925 (10th Cir. 1987)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Tenth Circuit
Extract
The continuity requirement has been the source of considerable difficulty.
Courts generally agree that to make an adequate showing of continuity
under Sedima, a plaintiff must demonstrate some facts from which at least a
threat of ongoing illegal conduct may be inferred. A scheme to achieve a
single discrete objective does not in and of itself create a threat of ongoing
activity, even when that goal is pursued by multiple illegal acts, because the
scheme ends when the purpose is accomplished. Courts that have
considered a RICO claim grounded on this type of scheme have therefore
required some additional evidence showing that the scheme was not an
isolated occurrence. See, e.g., Lipin Enters. Inc. v. Lee, 803 F.2d 322, 324
(7th Cir.1986) (acts to defraud one victim one time insufficient in absence of
showing of other victims or other frauds). A more difficult question is
presented when the RICO claim is based on one scheme involving one
victim, but the plan contemplates open-ended fraudulent activity and does
not have a single goal that, when achieved, will bring the activity to an end.
Some courts have found that such an ongoing scheme is itself sufficient to
satisfy the continuity element of a RICO pattern.

=== PAGE 32 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Continuity requirement in RICO cases, emphasizing that a single scheme
with a single discrete objective does not automatically satisfy the continuity
requirement unless there is evidence of ongoing illegal conduct. However, if
a scheme involves open-ended fraudulent activity without a single goal that
ends the activity, it may satisfy the continuity requirement. This indicates
that the Tenth Circuit recognizes the possibility of continuity in single-victim
schemes if the scheme is ongoing or open-ended.
Suddath v. Oklahome Homebuilders, LLC, CIV-24-745-SLP (W.D. Okla. Nov
08, 2024)
U.S. District Court — Western District of Oklahoma
Extract
RICO provides a civil cause of action for treble damages to anyone injured
“by reason of” certain racketeering activity. 18 U.S.C. §§ 1964(c), 1962. “To
plead a valid RICO claim, a plaintiff must plausibly allege that a defendant
(1) conducted the affairs (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of
racketeering activity.” Johnson v. Heath, 56 F.4th 851, 858 (10th Cir. 2022)
(internal quotation marks and citation omitted). Defendants challenge, inter
alia, the sufficiency of Plaintiffs' allegations with respect to the third element
- a “pattern” of racketeering activity. “A ‘pattern' requires at least two
predicate acts.” Bixler v. Foster, 596 F.3d 751, 761 (10th Cir. 2010) (citing 18
U.S.C. § 1961(5)). And those predicate acts themselves must amount to or
otherwise constitute a threat of continuing racketeering activity. Id. This
continuity requirement expresses congressional intent that “RICO reach
activities that amount to or threaten long-term criminal activity.” Id. (citing
H.J., Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Tele. Co., 492 U.S. 229, 243 n. 4 (1989)).
“‘Continuity' is both a closed-and open-ended concept: closed-ended
referring to a closed period of repeated conduct and open-ended referring to
conduct that by its nature projects into the future with a threat of
repetition.” Resol. Tr. Corp. v. Stone, 998 F.2d 1534, 1543 (10th Cir. 1993).
“A party alleging a RICO violation may demonstrate continuity over a closed
period by proving a series of related predicates extending over a substantial
period of time.” Id. A closed-ended series of predicate acts is not sufficient
to support a finding of a pattern of racketeering activity, however, where
those acts “constitute[ ] a single scheme to accomplish ‘one discrete goal,'
directed at one individual with no potential to extend to other persons or
entities.” Open-ended continuity “may be established by showing that the
predicates themselves involve a distinct threat of long-term racketeering
activity, either implicit or explicit, or that the predicates are a regular way of
conducting the defendant's ongoing legitimate business or the RICO
enterprise.” Resol. Tr., 998 F.2d at 1543. “Open-ended continuity requires a
clear threat of future criminal conduct related to past criminal conduct.”
Phelps v. Wichita Eagle-Beacon, 886 F.2d 1262, 1273 (10th Cir. 1989).

=== PAGE 33 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Requirements for establishing a RICO claim, specifically focusing on the
continuity aspect of the "pattern of racketeering activity." It explains that
continuity can be either closed-ended or open-ended. Closed-ended
continuity involves a series of related predicate acts over a substantial
period, but it is insufficient if the acts are part of a single scheme with a
discrete goal directed at one individual. Open-ended continuity can be
shown if the predicate acts pose a distinct threat of long-term racketeering
activity or are a regular way of conducting business. The passage cites
relevant Tenth Circuit and Supreme Court precedents, emphasizing the need
for a threat of future criminal conduct.
Condict v. Condict, 815 F.2d 579 (10th Cir. 1987)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Tenth Circuit
Extract
The continuity requirement has been the source of considerable difficulty.
Courts generally agree that to make an adequate showing of continuity
under Sedima, a plaintiff must demonstrate some facts from which at least a
threat of ongoing illegal conduct may be inferred. A scheme to achieve a
single discrete objective does not in and of itself create a threat of ongoing
activity, even when that goal is pursued by multiple illegal acts, because the
scheme ends when the purpose is accomplished. Courts that have
considered a RICO claim grounded on this type of scheme have therefore
required some additional evidence showing that the scheme was not an
isolated occurrence. See, e.g., Lipin Enters. Inc. v. Lee, 803 F.2d 322, 324
(7th Cir.1986) (acts to defraud one victim one time insufficient in absence of
showing of other victims or other frauds). A more difficult question is
presented when the RICO claim is based on one scheme involving one
victim, but the plan contemplates open-ended fraudulent activity and does
not have a single goal that, when achieved, will bring the activity to an end.
Some courts have found that such an ongoing scheme is itself sufficient to
satisfy the continuity element of a RICO pattern.
Summary
The passage highlights the difficulty courts face in determining continuity in
RICO cases, especially when the scheme involves a single victim or a single
discrete objective. It emphasizes that a single scheme does not
automatically imply continuity unless there is evidence of a threat of
ongoing illegal conduct. The passage also notes that some courts have found
that an ongoing scheme with open-ended fraudulent activity can satisfy the
continuity requirement, even if it involves a single victim.
Schrag v. Dinges, 788 F.Supp. 1543 (D. Kan. 1992)

=== PAGE 34 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
U.S. District Court — District of Kansas
Extract
In H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Tel. Co., 492 U.S. 229, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106
L.Ed.2d 195 (1989), the Supreme Court reiterated the well-established
concept that racketeering acts form a 'pattern' in RICO where they exhibit
'continuity plus relationship.' ... With respect to the 'continuity' requirement,
the Supreme Court stated that the predicate acts must amount to, or pose a
threat of, continuing racketeering activity. ... A RICO plaintiff 'may
demonstrate continuity over a closed period by proving a series of related
predicates extending over a substantial period of time.' ... Predicates
extending over merely a few weeks or months, on the other hand, may
satisfy the continuity element if there is a threat of repetition in the future.
This latter concept of continuity, which occurs over an 'open period,' is
established by showing that the predicate acts are a 'regular way of
conducting the enterprise's ongoing business.'
Summary
The passage from Schrag v. Dinges provides insight into the RICO continuity
requirement by referencing the Supreme Court's decision in H.J. Inc. It
explains that continuity can be demonstrated either through a closed period
of repeated conduct over a substantial time or through an open period
where there is a threat of future repetition. This is relevant to understanding
how courts should evaluate continuity at the motion to dismiss stage,
emphasizing that even short-term predicates can meet the continuity
requirement if they pose a future threat.
Condict v. Condict, 826 F.2d 923 (10th Cir. 1987)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Tenth Circuit
Extract
The continuity requirement has been the source of considerable difficulty.
Courts generally agree that to make an adequate showing of continuity
under Sedima, a plaintiff must demonstrate some facts from which at least a
threat of ongoing illegal conduct may be inferred. A scheme to achieve a
single discrete objective does not in and of itself create a threat of ongoing
activity, even when that goal is pursued by multiple illegal acts, because the
scheme ends when the purpose is accomplished. Courts that have
considered a RICO claim grounded on this type of scheme have therefore
required some additional evidence showing that the scheme was not an
isolated occurrence. See, e.g., Lipin Enters. Inc. v. Lee, 803 F.2d 322, 324
(7th Cir.1986) (acts to defraud one victim one time insufficient in absence of
showing of other victims or other frauds). A more difficult question is
presented when the RICO claim is based on one scheme involving one
victim, but the plan contemplates open-ended fraudulent activity and does
not have a single goal that, when achieved, will bring the activity to an end.

=== PAGE 35 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Some courts have found that such an ongoing scheme is itself sufficient to
satisfy the continuity element of a RICO pattern.
Summary
The continuity requirement in RICO claims is challenging to establish,
especially in cases involving a single scheme or victim. The passage
highlights that a single scheme with a discrete objective does not inherently
demonstrate continuity unless there is evidence suggesting ongoing or
future illegal conduct. This aligns with the broader understanding that RICO
is intended to address ongoing criminal enterprises rather than isolated
incidents.
UMB Bank v. Monson, 21-CV-2504-EFM (D. Kan. Jun 04, 2025)
U.S. District Court — District of Kansas
Extract
Next, the Court turns to the continuity requirement. Under this prong, a
plaintiff must allege that the acts amounted to or threaten continued
racketeering activity.[] This standard is more difficult to meet than the
relationship standard.[] Either 'open-ended' or 'closed-ended' continuity can
satisfy the continuity prong. Because UMB only alleges closed-ended
conduct, the Court will only evaluate this type of continuity. '[C]losed-ended
continuity consists of a closed period of repeated, related racketeering acts
that do not necessarily threaten future repetition.'[] However, '[w]ithout a
threat of continued illegal activity, a single scheme rarely supports finding
continuity. And a single scheme even less likely supports a continuity finding
when the scheme targets only one discrete goal.'[] To state closed-ended
continuity, the plaintiff must allege (1) duration and (2) extensiveness.[] ...
Lastly, although the scheme need not necessarily threaten future repetition,
it is difficult to support continuity without it. Here, UMB alleges that
fraudulent transfers were effectuated even after UMB filed this litigation,
which is sufficient to infer a threat of future criminal activities.[] Moreover,
even though UMB's Complaint centers on a single failed development, its
allegations of fraud and fraudulent concealment extend beyond just that
project. For example, UMB alleges that Stoen and Monson have a history of
wire fraud, indebtedness, default, and related litigation; and their actions in
this case mirror their prior acts. Thus, allegations of essentially the same
scheme perpetrated on prior parties may be alleged to support a claim of
closed-ended continuity.[] Having considered the extensiveness factors, the
Court finds that UMB has plausibly alleged that the RICO Defendants were
engaged in a complex and extensive scheme. The Amended Complaint
outlines a series of related fraudulent acts involving multiple parties and
spanning a significant period, which collectively suggest a coordinated effort
to defraud the financial institutions and manipulate the Project for financial
gain. The repeated nature of the acts and the involvement of various entities
indicate a pattern of racketeering activity rather than a single, discrete goal.

=== PAGE 36 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage explains the continuity requirement in a RICO claim, focusing
on closed-ended continuity. It clarifies that closed-ended continuity involves
a closed period of repeated, related racketeering acts that do not necessarily
threaten future repetition. However, it is challenging to support continuity
without a threat of future illegal activity. The passage also highlights that a
single scheme targeting one discrete goal rarely supports a finding of
continuity. The court in this case found that UMB sufficiently alleged closed-
ended continuity by demonstrating a complex and extensive scheme
involving multiple parties and repeated acts over a significant period,
suggesting a coordinated effort beyond a single, discrete goal.
Skurkey v. Daniel
U.S. District Court — Western District of Oklahoma
Extract
Courts have uniformly and consistently held that schemes involving a single,
narrow purpose and one or few participants directed towards a single victim
do not satisfy the RICO requirement of a closed or open pattern of
continuity. In Weizmann Institute of Science v. Neschis,... several
beneficiaries of an estate asserted RICO violations against the attorney for
the estate and a fiduciary of the estate. The plaintiffs alleged that the
defendants had committed several acts of mail fraud spanning a seven-year
period. Although the court noted that the duration of the alleged scheme
supported a finding of close-ended continuity, it ultimately concluded that
the scheme was too 'discrete and limited' to establish any pattern of
continuity because it involved only 'four predicate acts of mail...
Summary
The court in Skurkey v. Daniel emphasized that RICO's continuity
requirement is not satisfied by schemes that have a single, narrow purpose,
involve one or few participants, and are directed towards a single victim.
This aligns with the broader judicial consensus that such schemes are too
limited to meet the continuity requirement, even if they span a significant
duration. The case illustrates the difficulty of establishing a RICO pattern in
single-victim scenarios, which is relevant to the question of whether the
district court in Myers v. Branthoover correctly applied the continuity
requirement.
Purvis v. Hamwi, 828 F.Supp. 1479 (D. Colo. 1993)
U.S. District Court — District of Colorado

=== PAGE 37 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
A 'pattern' of racketeering activity under RICO 'requires at least two acts of
racketeering activity' within a ten-year period, 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5), but
'while two acts are necessary, they may not be sufficient.' Sedima, S.P.R.L. v.
Imrex Co., 473 U.S. 479, 496, n. 14, 105 S.Ct. 3275, 3285 n. 14, 87 L.Ed.2d
346 (1985). ... 'Continuity' is both a closed- and openended concept,
referring either to a closed period of repeated conduct, or to past conduct
that by its nature projects into the future with the threat of repetition.' Id. at
241, 109 S.Ct. at 2901. But predicate acts 'extending over a few weeks or
months and threatening no future criminal conduct do not satisfy this
requirement: Congress was concerned in RICO with long-term criminal
conduct.' Id. at 242, 109 S.Ct. at 2902.
Summary
The passage provides insight into the RICO continuity requirement,
emphasizing that while two predicate acts are necessary, they may not be
sufficient to establish a pattern. The concept of continuity can be either
closed-ended, involving a series of acts over a substantial period, or open-
ended, involving acts that project into the future with a threat of repetition.
The passage highlights that short-term activities without a threat of future
criminal conduct do not meet the continuity requirement, as RICO targets
long-term criminal conduct.
Gotfredson v. Larsen Lp, 432 F.Supp.2d 1163 (D. Colo. 2006)
U.S. District Court — District of Colorado
Extract
Here, Plaintiffs contend that they have established a pattern of racketeering
activity consisting of the following predicate acts: (1) conspiracy to commit
extortion, (2) mail and wire fraud, and (3) interstate travel in aid of
extortion. ... In order for Plaintiffs to prove a pattern, they must demonstrate
not only the existence of two or more predicate acts, but also that they are
related and pose at least a threat of continued criminal activity. ... Continuity
is both a closed and open-ended concept, referring either to a closed period
of repeated conduct, or to past conduct that by its nature projects into the
future with a threat of repetition. ... A party alleging a RICO violation may
demonstrate continuity over a closed period by proving a series of related
predicates extending over a substantial period of time. Predicate acts
extending over a few weeks or months and threatening no future criminal
conduct do not satisfy this requirement. ... Plaintiffs essentially allege a
closed-ended series of predicate acts. ... Plaintiffs' complaint does not allege
an extensive scheme. First, the number of victims is small and limited to
Plaintiffs Gotfredson and Trim Work Specialty, Inc. 'RICO is not aimed at the
isolated offender.' ... Plaintiffs do not allege a wide variety of racketeering
activities. At most, Plaintiffs assert a few allegations of mail and wire fraud
which are neither complex or large. Viewing the facts in a light most

=== PAGE 38 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
favorable to Plaintiffs, the predicate acts constitute a single scheme to
accomplish a discrete goal. ... Thus, Plaintiffs cannot establish closed-ended
continuity. ... Open-ended continuity 'may be established by showing that the
predicates themselves involve a distinct threat of long-term racketeering
activity, either implicit or explicit, or that the predicates are a regular way of
conducting the defendant's ongoing legitimate business or the RICO
enterprise.' ... Open-ended continuity requires a clear threat of future
criminal conduct. ... The fact that the Larsen family will remain intact does
not establish open-ended continuity. Thus, Plaintiffs have failed to
adequately plead open-ended continuity.
Summary
Requirements for establishing a pattern of racketeering activity under RICO,
focusing on the continuity requirement. It explains that continuity can be
either closed-ended or open-ended. Closed-ended continuity requires a
series of related predicate acts over a substantial period, while open-ended
continuity involves a threat of future criminal conduct. The passage
highlights that a single scheme with limited victims and a discrete goal,
without a threat of future criminal conduct, does not satisfy the continuity
requirement. This is relevant to the question of whether a single scheme or
limited victims can meet the RICO continuity requirement.
Myers v. Branthoover, CIV-24-1311-R (W.D. Okla. Oct 14, 2025)
U.S. District Court — Western District of Oklahoma
Extract
Plaintiff filed this civil RICO suit under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1962(c) and (d) and
Defendants moved to dismiss for failure to state a claim and improper
venue. On August 28, 2025, this Court fully granted Defendants' Motions to
Dismiss and entered judgment against Plaintiff, finding Plaintiff failed to
state a RICO claim because he did not adequately allege a pattern of
racketeering activity [Doc. No. 30]. Doc. No. 29 at p. 3. To allege a pattern
of racketeering activity, plaintiffs must demonstrate a relationship between
the predicate criminal acts and a threat of continuing activity. Johnson v.
Heath, 56 F.4th 851, 859 (10th Cir. 2022). A threat of continuing activity
may be demonstrated by establishing either open-ended or closed-ended
continuity. Id. The Court explained Plaintiff had failed to demonstrate open-
ended continuity because communications that occurred after the
achievement of Defendants' primary objective were unrelated to the alleged
racketeering activity. Doc. No. 29 at p. 6. Furthermore, the Court found
those communications did not plausibly support a continuing threat of
criminal conduct. Id. The Court also found Plaintiff failed to demonstrate
closed-ended continuity. Id. at p. 7 (citations omitted).

=== PAGE 39 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The court dismissed the RICO claim due to a failure to demonstrate a
pattern of racketeering activity, specifically focusing on the lack of open-
ended and closed-ended continuity. The denial of the motion for
reconsideration was based on the court's view that the plaintiff's arguments
did not sufficiently allege a pattern of racketeering activity. The appeal could
focus on challenging the court's interpretation of continuity and whether the
ongoing nature of the enterprise was adequately considered. Additionally,
the appeal could address whether the court overlooked material allegations
and controlling law regarding the ongoing nature of the enterprise and the
real threat of continued racketeering activity.
Edwards v. First Nat. Bank, Bartlesville, Oklahoma, 872 F.2d 347 (10th Cir.
1989)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Tenth Circuit
Extract
The continuity requirement has been the source of considerable difficulty.
Courts generally agree that to make an adequate showing of continuity
under Sedima, a plaintiff must demonstrate some facts from which at least a
threat of ongoing illegal conduct may be inferred. A scheme to achieve a
single discrete objective does not in and of itself create a threat of ongoing
activity, even when that goal is pursued by multiple illegal acts, because the
scheme ends when the purpose is accomplished. Courts that have
considered a RICO claim grounded on this type of scheme have therefore
required some additional evidence showing that the scheme was not an
isolated occurrence. See, e.g., Lipin Enters. Inc. v. Lee, 803 F.2d 322, 324
(7th Cir.1986) (acts to defraud one victim one time insufficient in absence of
showing of other victims or other frauds). A more difficult question is
presented when the RICO claim is based on one scheme involving one
victim, but the plan contemplates open-ended fraudulent activity and does
not have a single goal that, when achieved, will bring the activity to an end.
Some courts have found that such an ongoing scheme is itself sufficient to
satisfy the continuity element of a RICO pattern.
Summary
The passage highlights the difficulty courts face in determining continuity in
RICO cases, especially when the scheme involves a single victim or a single
discrete objective. It explains that a single scheme does not automatically
imply ongoing activity unless there is evidence of a threat of continued
illegal conduct. The passage also notes that some courts have found that an
ongoing scheme with open-ended fraudulent activity can satisfy the
continuity requirement, even if it involves a single victim.

=== PAGE 40 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Thompson v. Wyoming Alaska, Inc., 652 F.Supp. 1222 (D. Utah 1987)
U.S. District Court — District of Utah
Extract
This court concluded in Huntsman that plaintiffs had pleaded predicate
racketeering acts which were connected with each other within one common
scheme, but that in that situation of mail/wire fraud more than one
continuing scheme or episode would be necessary in order to establish a
sufficient and observable pattern. The acts in question did not establish the
regular way in which defendants did business. ... In Torwest DBC, Inc. v.
Dick, 810 F.2d 925 (10th Cir.1986), the Tenth Circuit stressed in a single
scheme case that the 'continuity' requirement of pattern requires
demonstration of 'facts from which at least a threat of ongoing illegal
conduct may be inferred,' and that the single scheme would have to involve
'continuous behavior.' ... The exact meaning of the term 'multiple criminal
episodes' is not clear, but at a minimum it means that the defendant must
harm the plaintiff more than once — it must have committed acts which are
ongoing and which have an independent and repeated harmful significance
for the plaintiff.
Summary
The court in "Thompson v. Wyoming Alaska, Inc." discusses the necessity of
demonstrating continuity in RICO claims, particularly when the claim is
based on a single scheme or involves a single victim. The court references
the Tenth Circuit's decision in "Torwest DBC, Inc. v. Dick," which emphasizes
that continuity requires showing a threat of ongoing illegal conduct and
continuous behavior. The passage also highlights that multiple criminal
episodes, meaning acts that are ongoing and have independent harmful
significance, are necessary to establish a pattern. This aligns with the
broader requirement in RICO cases to demonstrate either closed-ended or
open-ended continuity.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Argust, Corey P. - 2010-03-22
Extract
ICO's pattern requirement: '[c]riminal conduct forms a pattern if it
embraces criminal acts that have the same or similar purposes, results,
participants, victims, or methods of commission, or otherwise are
interrelated by distinguishing characteristics and are not isolated
events.' (58) The 'continuity' prong is satisfied by proof of either closed-
ended continuity or open-ended continuity. Closed-ended continuity in the
RICO context may be demonstrated 'by proving a series of related
predicates extending over a substantial period of time.' (59) Open-ended

=== PAGE 41 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
continuity in the RICO context is conduct that may last only a short period of
time but nonetheless, poses a threat of extending into the future. (60) The
Court suggested a case-by-case examination of this issue, noting that the
existence of a 'threat of continued racketeering activity' is a function of
particular facts. (61) The Court offered a non-exhaustive list of situations
that may constitute a pattern (62) and stated 'development of these concepts
must await future cases.' (63)
Summary
RICO pattern requirement, emphasizing the need for criminal acts to be
related and continuous. It distinguishes between closed-ended continuity,
which involves a series of related acts over a substantial period, and open-
ended continuity, which involves acts that may be short-lived but pose a
future threat. The passage highlights the importance of a case-by-case
analysis to determine the existence of a threat of continued racketeering
activity, suggesting that the development of these concepts is ongoing and
dependent on future cases.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Allison, Bridget - 1998-03-22
Extract
The Supreme Court made a second attempt to clarify the 'pattern' concept in
H.J., Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Co. In that case, the Court held
that when proving a 'pattern of racketeering activity,' RICO requires both
relationship and continuity of predicate acts as separate elements. However,
the Court recognized that proof of these factors will often overlap. The
relationship prong is defined by the connection of the defendant's criminal
acts to one another: 'continuity' is successfully proved if a prosecutor can
show actual continuity during a past, closed period of repeated conduct or
an open-ended threat of continued racketeering activity in the future. The
H.J., Inc. Court suggested a case-by-case examination of this issue... The
Tenth Circuit has posited... pattern of racketeering and that to establish an
enterprise may coalesce.
Summary
The Supreme Court in H.J., Inc. clarified that proving a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO requires demonstrating both a relationship
and continuity of predicate acts. The Tenth Circuit, like other circuits,
follows this framework, which allows for continuity to be shown either
through a closed period of repeated conduct or an open-ended threat of
continued activity. This suggests that the Tenth Circuit's approach to RICO
continuity is consistent with the Supreme Court's guidance, emphasizing a
case-by-case analysis.

=== PAGE 42 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bailey, Lisa Pritchard - 1999-06-22
Extract
The Tenth Circuit has posited a multi-factor approach in its pattern
analysis(88) and adopted a flexible continuity analysis.(89)
Summary
The Tenth Circuit employs a multi-factor approach when analyzing the
pattern element of RICO claims. This approach includes a flexible analysis of
continuity, which suggests that the Tenth Circuit does not adhere to a rigid
or overly strict interpretation of what constitutes a pattern of racketeering
activity. Instead, it considers various factors to determine whether the
continuity requirement is met, allowing for a more nuanced and context-
sensitive evaluation.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Sacks, Michele - 2005-03-22
Extract
The 'continuity' component is met by either closed-ended continuity, defined
as 'a series of related predicates extending over a substantial period of
time,' or open-ended continuity, defined as conduct that poses a threat of
extending into the future. The Court suggested a case-by-case examination
of this issue, noting that the existence of a 'threat of continued racketeering
activity' is a function of particular facts. The Seventh and Tenth Circuits
employ the H.J. Inc. test and consider duration and open-endedness of the
racketeering activity, but cling to the multi-factor test applied prior to H.J.
Inc.
Summary
The continuity requirement in RICO cases can be satisfied by either closed-
ended or open-ended continuity. Closed-ended continuity involves a series of
related predicates over a substantial period, while open-ended continuity
involves conduct that poses a future threat. The Tenth Circuit, along with
the Seventh Circuit, uses the H.J. Inc. test, which considers both the
duration and the open-endedness of the racketeering activity. This suggests
that the Tenth Circuit's approach is consistent with the Supreme Court's
guidance in H.J. Inc., focusing on the specific facts of each case to determine
the existence of a threat of continued racketeering activity.

=== PAGE 43 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Douglass, Sean M. - 2011-03-22
Extract
The 'continuity' prong is satisfied by proof of either closed-ended continuity
or open-ended continuity. Closed-ended continuity in the RICO context may
be demonstrated 'by proving a series of related predicates extending over a
substantial period of time.' Open-ended continuity in the RICO context is
conduct that may last only a short period of time but nonetheless poses a
threat of extending into the future. The Court suggested a case-by-case
examination of this issue, noting that the existence of a 'threat of continued
racketeering activity' is a function of particular facts.
Summary
The continuity requirement in RICO cases can be satisfied through either
closed-ended or open-ended continuity. Closed-ended continuity involves a
series of related predicate acts over a substantial period, while open-ended
continuity involves conduct that, although it may last only a short time,
poses a threat of continuing into the future. The determination of continuity
is fact-specific and requires a case-by-case analysis to assess the threat of
continued racketeering activity.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bourgeois, Richard L., Jr. - 2000-03-22
Extract
The 'continuity' prong is successfully proven if a prosecutor can prove 'a
series of related predicates extending over a substantial period of time' or
an open-ended threat of continued racketeering activity in the future. The
H.J., Inc. court suggested a case-by-case examination of this issue. Noting
that the existence of a 'threat of continued racketeering activity' is a
function of particular facts, the Court avoided a black-letter enumeration of
particular factors which may constitute a pattern. Even with this guidance,
the courts of appeals have reached varying conclusions regarding what
conduct constitutes a pattern of racketeering. The primary reason for this
difficulty is the potential tension between the two prongs of the pattern
requirement: 'relationship' and 'continuity.' Events that are proximate in
time and closely related may lack continuity. Events not proximate in time
may be continuous, yet less related.

=== PAGE 44 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The continuity prong of RICO's pattern requirement can be satisfied by
either a series of related predicates over a substantial period or an open-
ended threat of continued activity. The Supreme Court in H.J., Inc.
emphasized a case-by-case approach, acknowledging that the existence of a
threat of continued activity depends on specific facts. The passage also
highlights the difficulty courts face in balancing the relationship and
continuity prongs, as events closely related in time may lack continuity, and
those not proximate in time may still be continuous.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Franklin, Amy - 2008-03-22
Extract
The 'continuity' component is met by either closed-ended continuity, defined
as 'a series of related predicates extending over a substantial period of
time,' or open-ended continuity, defined as conduct that poses a threat of
extending into the future. The Court suggested a case-by-case examination
of this issue, noting that the existence of a 'threat of continued racketeering
activity' is a function of particular facts. The Court offered a non-exhaustive
list of situations that may constitute a pattern, and stated 'development of
these concepts must await future cases.' With this guidance, the circuits
have reached varying conclusions regarding what conduct constitutes a
pattern of racketeering. The primary reason for this difficulty is the potential
tension between the two prongs of the pattern requirement: 'relationship'
and 'continuity.' Nine federal circuit courts of appeal consistently apply
some form of the 'continuity plus relationship' test. These circuits use a two-
tiered analysis for the continuity prong, focusing on the length of time and
number of acts required for continuity. Either closed-ended or open-ended
continuity satisfies the continuity test in these circuits. The Seventh and
Tenth Circuits employ the H.J. Inc. test and consider duration and open-
endedness of the racketeering activity, but cling to the multi-factor test
applied prior to H.J. Inc.
Summary
The continuity requirement for RICO cases can be satisfied by either closed-
ended or open-ended continuity. Closed-ended continuity involves a series of
related predicates over a substantial period, while open-ended continuity
involves conduct that poses a future threat. The passage highlights that the
Tenth Circuit, along with others, applies the "continuity plus relationship"
test, considering both the duration and the potential for ongoing
racketeering activity. This indicates that even single schemes or single
victims can meet the continuity requirement if there is a threat of continued
activity.

=== PAGE 45 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Mecone, James Morrison - 2006-03-22
Extract
The 'continuity' component is met by either closed-ended continuity, defined
as 'a series of related predicates extending over a substantial period of
time,' or open-ended continuity, defined as conduct that poses a threat of
extending into the future. The Court suggested a case-by-case examination
of this issue, noting that the existence of a 'threat of continued racketeering
activity' is a function of particular facts. The Court offered a non-exhaustive
list of situations that may constitute a pattern, and stated 'development of
these concepts must await future cases.' With this guidance, the circuits
have reached varying conclusions regarding what conduct constitutes a
pattern of racketeering. The primary reason for this difficulty is the potential
tension between the two prongs of the pattern requirement: 'relationship'
and 'continuity.' Nine federal circuit courts of appeal consistently apply
some form of the 'continuity plus relationship' test. These circuits use a two-
tiered analysis for the continuity prong, focusing on the length of time and
number of acts required for continuity. Either closed-ended or open-ended
continuity satisfies the continuity test in these circuits.
Summary
The continuity requirement in RICO cases can be satisfied by either closed-
ended or open-ended continuity. Closed-ended continuity involves a series of
related predicates over a substantial period, while open-ended continuity
involves conduct that poses a future threat. The passage highlights that the
interpretation of continuity is fact-specific and varies among circuits, with a
common approach being the "continuity plus relationship" test. This test
considers both the duration and the threat of continued criminal activity,
and it is applied on a case-by-case basis.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bagley, Ross - 2007-03-22
Extract
The 'continuity' component is met by either closed-ended continuity, defined
as 'a series of related predicates extending over a substantial period of
time,' or open-ended continuity, defined as conduct that poses a threat of
extending into the future. The Court suggested a case-by-case examination
of this issue, noting that the existence of a 'threat of continued racketeering
activity' is a function of particular facts.

=== PAGE 46 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The continuity requirement for RICO can be satisfied in two ways: closed-
ended continuity, which involves a series of related acts over a substantial
period, and open-ended continuity, which involves conduct that poses a
future threat. The determination of continuity is fact-specific and requires a
case-by-case analysis to assess the threat of continued racketeering activity.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Holt, Michael W. - 2009-03-22
Extract
The 'continuity' prong is satisfied by proof of either closed-ended continuity
or open-ended continuity. Closed-ended continuity is defined as 'a series of
related predicates extending over a substantial period of time.' Open-ended
continuity is defined as conduct that may last only a short period of time but
nonetheless, poses a threat of extending into the future. The Court
suggested a case-by-case examination of this issue, noting that the existence
of a 'threat of continued racketeering activity' is a function of particular
facts.
Summary
The continuity requirement in RICO cases can be satisfied through either
closed-ended or open-ended continuity. Closed-ended continuity involves a
series of related acts over a substantial period, while open-ended continuity
involves conduct that, although short-lived, poses a future threat. The
determination of continuity is fact-specific and requires a case-by-case
analysis. This understanding is crucial in evaluating whether a single
scheme or single victim scenario can meet the RICO continuity requirement,
as it emphasizes the potential for future criminal activity rather than the
number of victims or schemes.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of October 25, 2025. View full answer on vLex

