FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-Morgan-Michelle-Myers-and-Daniel-Branthoover-collaborated-to-devise-a-scheme-involving-the-preparati-1.pdf
PAGES: 27
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
Morgan Michelle Myers and Daniel Branthoover collaborated to devise a
scheme involving the preparation and use of false court documents. Under
18 U.S.C. § 1961(4), an "enterprise" includes any individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of
individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity. The collaboration
between Morgan and Daniel to achieve a common purpose (removing the
husband from the family home through fraudulent means) constitutes an
"association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Answer (U.S. Federal)
Short response
The collaboration between Morgan Michelle Myers and Daniel Branthoover
to prepare and use false court documents for the purpose of removing the
husband from the family home constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise
under RICO. Their partnership satisfies the required elements of an
association-in-fact enterprise: a common purpose, relationships among
associates, and sufficient longevity to pursue the enterprise's purpose.
Summary
Under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), an
"enterprise" is broadly defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4) to include "any
individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and
any union or group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal
entity." The Supreme Court has established that an association-in-fact
enterprise requires three structural features: a common purpose,
relationships among those associated with the enterprise, and longevity
sufficient to permit these associates to pursue the enterprise's purpose. The
collaboration between Morgan Michelle Myers and Daniel Branthoover to
prepare and use false court documents to remove a husband from the family
home meets these requirements.
The RICO statute is intentionally broad in its definition of "enterprise" and
courts have consistently interpreted it liberally to effectuate its remedial
purposes. The association between Morgan and Daniel satisfies the
requirements of an association-in-fact enterprise under RICO because they
collaborated toward a common fraudulent purpose, developed a relationship
to achieve this end, and maintained their association long enough to pursue
their objective of using false court documents to remove the husband from
the family home. This analysis is supported by extensive case law
establishing that even small, informal groupings focused on criminal
activities can constitute RICO enterprises.

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Background and Relevant Legislation
RICO Statutory Provisions
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) defines an
"enterprise" in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4) as including "any individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of
individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity." 18 U.S.C. §
1961(4). This definition is intentionally broad, encompassing both legitimate
and illegitimate entities, as well as formal and informal associations.
RICO further prohibits specific activities related to such enterprises in 18
U.S.C. § 1962, which states that "[i]t shall be unlawful for any person
through a pattern of racketeering activity or through collection of an
unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest in or
control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce." 18 U.S.C. § 1962. The statute also
makes it unlawful "for any person employed by or associated with any
enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of
such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity or
collection of unlawful debt." 18 U.S.C. § 1962.
Additionally, the statute prohibits conspiracy to violate these provisions,
stating that "[i]t shall be unlawful for any person to conspire to violate any
of the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section." 18 U.S.C. §
1962.
Case Law Interpreting "Association-in-Fact"
Enterprises
Supreme Court Precedent
The Supreme Court has provided authoritative guidance on what constitutes
an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO. In United States v. Turkette,
452 U.S. 576 (1981), the Court established that an "enterprise" includes
both legitimate and illegitimate organizations. The Court stated that an
enterprise is "a group of persons associated together for a common purpose
of engaging in a course of conduct" and that it is "proved by evidence of an
ongoing organization, formal or informal, and by evidence that the various
associates function as a continuing unit." United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S.
576, 583 (1981). It should be noted that Turkette was abrogated by United
States v. Lane, 474 U.S. 438 (1986), but the abrogation related to harmless
error analysis and did not affect Turkette's interpretation of what constitutes
an "enterprise" under RICO.
The Supreme Court further clarified the requirements for an association-in-
fact enterprise in Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938 (2009). The Court
emphasized that the statutory definition of "enterprise" is expansive and
that "the term 'any' ensures that the definition has a wide reach." Boyle v.

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
United States, 556 U.S. 938, 944 (2009) as cited in United States v. Kelly,
609 F.Supp.3d 85 (E.D.N.Y. 2022). The Court identified three structural
features necessary for an association-in-fact enterprise: "(1) a purpose, (2)
relationships among those associated with the enterprise, (3) longevity
sufficient to permit these associates to pursue the enterprise's purpose." 
Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938, 946 (2009) as cited in McGillvary v.
Scutari, 23-cv-22605-JMY (D.N.J. Dec 23, 2024).
The Boyle Court emphasized that "the very concept of an association in fact
is expansive," in keeping with RICO's directive that "its terms are to be
liberally construed to effectuate its remedial purposes." Boyle v. United
States, 556 U.S. 938, 946 (2009) as cited in McGillvary v. Scutari, 23-
cv-22605-JMY (D.N.J. Dec 23, 2024).
Circuit and District Court Interpretations
Circuit and district courts have consistently applied these Supreme Court
precedents to determine what constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise
under RICO.
In United States v. Cianci, 378 F.3d 71 (1st Cir. 2004), the First Circuit
interpreted "enterprise" to include "illegitimate associations-in-fact marked
by an ongoing formal or informal organization of individual or legal-entity
associates, ... who or which function as a continuing organized crime unit
'for a common purpose of engaging in a course of conduct.'" United States v.
Cianci, 378 F.3d 71 (1st Cir. 2004). The court also clarified that "the
definitions of an enterprise in the RICO statute and the jury instructions in
no way require an enterprise to include nothing but criminal actors." United
States v. Cianci, 378 F.3d 71 (1st Cir. 2004).
In United States v. Console, 13 F.3d 641 (3rd Cir. 1993), the Third Circuit
reaffirmed that an enterprise "is an entity separate and apart from the
pattern of activity in which it engages," and that it is "proved by evidence of
an ongoing organization, formal or informal, and by evidence that the
various associates function as a continuing unit." United States v. Console,
13 F.3d 641 (3rd Cir. 1993).
The Eighth Circuit, in U.S. v. Bledsoe, 674 F.2d 647 (8th Cir. 1982), noted
that the RICO statute defines enterprise broadly to include "any individual,
partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or
group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity." U.S. v.
Bledsoe, 674 F.2d 647 (8th Cir. 1982). The court also acknowledged the
government's argument that "any association of individuals can be an
enterprise" and that "in any security or mail fraud case wherein a conspiracy
of two or more persons is formed and two or more overt acts of fraud occur,
defendants may be prosecuted under RICO with its heightened punishment." 
U.S. v. Bledsoe, 674 F.2d 647 (8th Cir. 1982). While Bledsoe was abrogated
by United States v. Lane, like Turkette, this abrogation did not affect its
interpretation of what constitutes an "enterprise" under RICO.
The Fourth Circuit, in U.S. v. Griffin, 660 F.2d 996 (4th Cir. 1982), outlined
the essential elements of a substantive RICO violation, which include "(1)

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
employment by or association of a defendant with (2) an 'enterprise' (3)
engaged in or affecting interstate commerce (4) the affairs of which are
conducted by or participated in by the defendant 'through a pattern of
racketeering activity.'" U.S. v. Griffin, 660 F.2d 996 (4th Cir. 1982). The court
affirmed that "the enterprise contemplated may be an illegitimate as well as
a legitimate one." U.S. v. Griffin, 660 F.2d 996 (4th Cir. 1982).
More recent district court decisions have continued to apply these
principles. In McGillvary v. Scutari, 23-cv-22605-JMY (D.N.J. Dec 23, 2024),
the court reiterated that an association-in-fact RICO enterprise requires "a
purpose, relationships among those associated with the enterprise, and
longevity sufficient to permit these associates to pursue the enterprise's
purpose." McGillvary v. Scutari, 23-cv-22605-JMY (D.N.J. Dec 23, 2024).
In United States v. Denava, the court identified the three elements of a RICO
conspiracy: "(1) an agreement to conduct or participate in the affairs (2) of
an enterprise (3) through a pattern of racketeering activity." United States v.
Denava (N.D. Ill. 2023).
The Eastern District of New York, in United States v. Kelly, 609 F.Supp.3d 85
(E.D.N.Y. 2022), emphasized that the definition of "enterprise" has a "wide
reach" and that an association-in-fact enterprise must have "a purpose,
relationships among those associated with the enterprise, and longevity
sufficient to permit these associates to pursue the enterprise's purpose." 
United States v. Kelly, 609 F.Supp.3d 85 (E.D.N.Y. 2022).
The Western District of Tennessee, in Brown v. Hanover Am. Ins. Co., Case
No. 2:20-cv-02415 (W.D. Tenn. Jul 14, 2021), stated that an association-in-
fact enterprise "can be proven by 'evidence of an ongoing organization,
formal or informal, and by evidence that the various associates function as a
continuing unit.'" Brown v. Hanover Am. Ins. Co., Case No. 2:20-cv-02415
(W.D. Tenn. Jul 14, 2021).
The Southern District of Iowa, in Kruse v. Repp, 543 F.Supp.3d 654 (S.D.
Iowa 2021), described an association-in-fact enterprise as "a broad category
with an expansive reach, consisting of 'a group of persons associated
together for a common purpose of engaging in a course of conduct.'" Kruse
v. Repp, 543 F.Supp.3d 654 (S.D. Iowa 2021).
The District of Minnesota, in Schreier v. Drealan Kvilhaug Hoefker & Co.
P.A., 611 F.Supp.3d 746 (D. Minn. 2020), outlined three requirements to
show a RICO enterprise: "(1) a common purpose that animates the
individuals associated with it; (2) an ongoing organization with members
who function as a continuing unit; and (3) an ascertainable structure distinct
from the conduct of a pattern of racketeering." Schreier v. Drealan Kvilhaug
Hoefker & Co. P.A., 611 F.Supp.3d 746 (D. Minn. 2020).
The Southern District of Florida, in AIM Recycling of Fla., LLC v. Metals
USA, Inc., Case No. 18-cv-60292-BLOOM/Valle (S.D. Fla. Jan 13, 2020),
noted that a RICO enterprise "need not possess an 'ascertainable structure'
distinct from the associations necessary to conduct the pattern of
racketeering activity." AIM Recycling of Fla., LLC v. Metals USA, Inc., Case
No. 18-cv-60292-BLOOM/Valle (S.D. Fla. Jan 13, 2020).

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Secondary Materials
Secondary materials further support the broad interpretation of "enterprise"
under RICO and the requirements for establishing an association-in-fact
enterprise.
The "Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy" publication explains that a violation of §
1962(c) requires "(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4)
of racketeering activity." Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy (2024). It elaborates
that "a 'racketeering activity' refers to a violation of a specific statute" and
that a "'pattern of racketeering activity' [can be shown] by pointing to at
least two distinct but related predicate acts." Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy
(2024).
The "RICO: A Primer" publication emphasizes that "courts have interpreted
'enterprise' broadly, and the definition captures both legitimate and
illegitimate enterprises." RICO: A Primer (2022).
The "Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations" publication states that
an association-in-fact must have "a shared purpose, continuity, and unity"
and that "RICO association-in-fact enterprises need not have 'an
ascertainable structure beyond that inherent in the pattern of racketeering
activity.'" Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations (2011).
Another publication on "Reflections on Reves v. Ernst & Young" explains that
the concept of "enterprise" was selected by Congress "because it desired to
use 'terms and concepts of breadth.'" Reflections on Reves v. Ernst & Young:
its meaning and impact on substantive, accessory, aiding abetting and
conspiracy liability under RICO (1996).
The "Chapter 4. Elements of Cause of Action" publication notes that the
statutory language defining "enterprise" is "expansive" and that "the word
'includes' renders the statutory list illustrative, not exhaustive." Chapter 4.
Elements of Cause of Action.
Analysis
Application to Morgan and Daniel's Collaboration
Based on the legislation, case law, and secondary materials discussed above,
the collaboration between Morgan Michelle Myers and Daniel Branthoover
to prepare and use false court documents to remove the husband from the
family home constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO. This
analysis applies the three structural features required by Boyle:
Common Purpose: Morgan and Daniel collaborated to achieve the
common purpose of removing the husband from the family home
through fraudulent means, specifically by preparing and using false
court documents. This satisfies the requirement that associates in an
enterprise share a common purpose. As stated in Boyle v. United
States, 556 U.S. 938 (2009) and reiterated in United States v. Kelly, 609
1. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
F.Supp.3d 85 (E.D.N.Y. 2022), an association-in-fact enterprise is "a
group of persons associated together for a common purpose of
engaging in a course of conduct." The purpose of removing the husband
from the family home through fraudulent means is a clear, specific
objective that both Morgan and Daniel worked toward.
Relationships Among Associates: Morgan and Daniel's collaboration
establishes a relationship between them as associates in the enterprise.
They worked together to prepare and use false court documents, which
demonstrates coordination and cooperation between them. As noted in 
United States v. Cianci, 378 F.3d 71 (1st Cir. 2004), an association-in-
fact enterprise can be an "informal organization of individual or legal-
entity associates." The relationship between Morgan and Daniel,
though possibly informal, is sufficient to satisfy this requirement.
Longevity: The collaboration between Morgan and Daniel involved
devising a scheme, preparing false court documents, and using those
documents. This process would necessarily take place over a period of
time, indicating sufficient longevity for them to pursue their
enterprise's purpose. As stated in Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938
(2009), an association-in-fact enterprise must have "longevity sufficient
to permit these associates to pursue the enterprise's purpose." The fact
that Morgan and Daniel were able to devise their scheme, prepare the
false documents, and then use them suggests a duration sufficient to
satisfy this requirement.
Furthermore, courts have consistently emphasized the broad and inclusive
nature of the "enterprise" definition under RICO. In Boyle v. United States,
556 U.S. 938 (2009), the Supreme Court noted that "the very concept of an
association in fact is expansive" and that RICO's terms are "to be liberally
construed to effectuate its remedial purposes." Similarly, in Kruse v. Repp,
543 F.Supp.3d 654 (S.D. Iowa 2021), the court described an association-in-
fact enterprise as "a broad category with an expansive reach."
Additionally, the case law indicates that even a small group of individuals
can constitute an association-in-fact enterprise if they share a common
purpose. As stated in United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576 (1981), an
enterprise is "a group of persons associated together for a common purpose
of engaging in a course of conduct." There is no minimum number of
associates required, so the collaboration between Morgan and Daniel is
sufficient to form an enterprise.
The fact that Morgan and Daniel's collaboration involved illegal activities—
preparing and using false court documents—does not preclude it from being
an enterprise under RICO. In fact, United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576
(1981) established that RICO applies to both legitimate and illegitimate
enterprises. As stated in U.S. v. Griffin, 660 F.2d 996 (4th Cir. 1982), "the
enterprise contemplated may be an illegitimate as well as a legitimate one."
Moreover, the preparation and use of false court documents could constitute
predicate acts of racketeering activity under RICO, which includes mail
fraud and wire fraud among other offenses. As noted in Civil Rico: A Tool of
Advocacy (2024), a "pattern of racketeering activity" can be shown "by
2. 
3. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
pointing to at least two distinct but related predicate acts." If Morgan and
Daniel committed at least two such acts in furtherance of their scheme, they
could potentially be liable under RICO.
Distinguishing Features of This Case
Several features of Morgan and Daniel's collaboration make it particularly
apt to be classified as an association-in-fact enterprise under RICO:
Coordinated Action: Morgan and Daniel worked together to devise a
scheme and prepare false court documents, indicating coordinated
action rather than independent activities. This coordination supports
the finding of an association-in-fact enterprise, as it demonstrates that
they functioned as "a continuing unit," as required by United States v.
Turkette, 452 U.S. 576 (1981).
Shared Goal: The goal of removing the husband from the family home
through fraudulent means was shared by both Morgan and Daniel,
satisfying the "common purpose" requirement emphasized in multiple
cases, including Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938 (2009) and 
Schreier v. Drealan Kvilhaug Hoefker & Co. P.A., 611 F.Supp.3d 746 (D.
Minn. 2020).
Ongoing Relationship: The collaboration between Morgan and Daniel
was not a one-time interaction but involved multiple steps—devising the
scheme, preparing the documents, and using them—suggesting an
ongoing relationship sufficient to satisfy the "ongoing organization"
requirement mentioned in United States v. Console, 13 F.3d 641 (3rd
Cir. 1993).
Use of False Documents: The preparation and use of false court
documents is a serious form of fraud that could constitute predicate
acts under RICO. As stated in United States v. Denava (N.D. Ill. 2023), a
RICO conspiracy requires "a pattern of racketeering activity," which
these activities could potentially establish.
Potential Counterarguments and Limitations
There are potential counterarguments and limitations to the conclusion that
Morgan and Daniel's collaboration constitutes an association-in-fact
enterprise under RICO:
Scale of the Enterprise: One might argue that the collaboration
between just two individuals for a single purpose is too small or limited
to constitute an enterprise under RICO. However, courts have not
established a minimum size requirement for RICO enterprises, and
even small associations can qualify if they meet the structural features
outlined in Boyle. In fact, the statutory definition explicitly includes
"any individual" as a potential enterprise, suggesting that even a very
small group can qualify.
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
1. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Duration of the Collaboration: If Morgan and Daniel's collaboration
was very brief or consisted of only a single transaction, one might
question whether it has the longevity required for an association-in-fact
enterprise. However, as noted in M.W. Widoff, P.C. v. Encompass Ins.
Co. of America, Case No. 10 C 8159 (N.D. Ill. Mar 02, 2012), an
association-in-fact enterprise must have "longevity sufficient to permit
these associates to pursue the enterprise's purpose." The fact that
Morgan and Daniel devised a scheme, prepared false documents, and
then used them suggests a duration sufficient to satisfy this
requirement.
Formality of the Relationship: If the relationship between Morgan
and Daniel was extremely informal or lacked structure, one might
question whether it qualifies as an enterprise. However, courts have
consistently held that an association-in-fact enterprise need not have a
formal structure. As stated in AIM Recycling of Fla., LLC v. Metals USA,
Inc., Case No. 18-cv-60292-BLOOM/Valle (S.D. Fla. Jan 13, 2020), a
RICO enterprise "need not possess an 'ascertainable structure' distinct
from the associations necessary to conduct the pattern of racketeering
activity." Similarly, Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations
(2011) notes that "RICO association-in-fact enterprises need not have
'an ascertainable structure beyond that inherent in the pattern of
racketeering activity.'"
Pattern of Racketeering Activity: While the collaboration between
Morgan and Daniel may constitute an enterprise, a RICO violation also
requires a "pattern of racketeering activity," which typically involves at
least two predicate acts. Without more information about the specific
activities involved in their scheme, it is difficult to determine whether
they engaged in such a pattern. However, the preparation and use of
false court documents could potentially constitute multiple acts of mail
fraud or wire fraud, which are predicate acts under RICO.
Despite these potential counterarguments, the broad definition of
"enterprise" under RICO and the consistent judicial interpretation of that
term suggest that Morgan and Daniel's collaboration would qualify as an
association-in-fact enterprise. As stated in Reflections on Reves v. Ernst &
Young: its meaning and impact on substantive, accessory, aiding abetting
and conspiracy liability under RICO (1996), the concept of "enterprise" was
selected by Congress "because it desired to use 'terms and concepts of
breadth.'"
Conclusion
Based on the legislation, case law, and secondary materials analyzed above,
the collaboration between Morgan Michelle Myers and Daniel Branthoover
to prepare and use false court documents for the purpose of removing the
husband from the family home constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise
under RICO. This conclusion is supported by the broad statutory definition of
"enterprise" in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4), the Supreme Court's interpretation of
that term in cases like United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576 (1981) and 
2. 
3. 
4. 

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938 (2009), and the consistent application of
these principles by lower courts.
The collaboration between Morgan and Daniel satisfies the three structural
features required for an association-in-fact enterprise as outlined in Boyle: a
common purpose (removing the husband from the family home through
fraudulent means), relationships among associates (their collaboration in
devising the scheme and preparing the false documents), and longevity
sufficient to pursue that purpose (the duration of their scheme from
conception to execution).
The fact that their enterprise was formed for an illegitimate purpose—
preparing and using false court documents—does not preclude it from being
an "enterprise" under RICO, as the statute and case law explicitly
encompass both legitimate and illegitimate enterprises. As emphasized by
the Supreme Court in Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938 (2009), "the very
concept of an association in fact is expansive," and RICO's terms are "to be
liberally construed to effectuate its remedial purposes."
Therefore, the collaboration between Morgan Michelle Myers and Daniel
Branthoover constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO,
satisfying the definition provided in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4) and interpreted by
the courts.
Legal Authorities
Boyle v. United States, 129 S.Ct. 2237, 173 L.Ed.2d 1265, 556 U.S. 938, 77
USLW 4474 (2009)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
In light of RICO's broad statement that an enterprise 'includes any ... group
of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity,' § 1961(4), and
the requirement that RICO be 'liberally construed to effectuate its remedial
purposes,' note following § 1961, Turkette explained that 'enterprise'
reaches 'a group of persons associated together for a common purpose of
engaging in a course of conduct,' 452 U.S., at 583, 101 S.Ct. 2524, and 'is
proved by evidence of an ongoing organization, formal or informal, and by
evidence that the various associates function as a continuing unit.'
Summary
The passage from Boyle v. United States clarifies that an "enterprise" under
RICO includes any group of individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal
entity. The definition is broad and is meant to be liberally construed to
achieve RICO's remedial purposes. The passage emphasizes that an
association-in-fact enterprise is characterized by a common purpose,
ongoing organization, and functioning as a continuing unit. This supports
the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's collaboration to achieve a

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
fraudulent purpose can be considered an "association-in-fact" enterprise
under RICO.
U.S. v. Cianci, 378 F.3d 71 (1st Cir. 2004)
U.S. Court of Appeals — First Circuit
Extract
A RICO 'enterprise' 'includes any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4). ...
Accordingly, 'enterprise' has been interpreted inter alia to include ...
illegitimate associations-in-fact marked by an ongoing formal or informal
organization of individual or legal-entity associates, ... who or which function
as a continuing organized crime unit 'for a common purpose of engaging in a
course of conduct.' ... The definitions of an enterprise in the RICO statute
and the jury instructions in no way require an enterprise to include nothing
but criminal actors. ... But the ultimate question is whether an association-
in-fact exists. For this, it is not required that each participant have a
separate mens rea so long as each can reasonably be said to share in the
common purpose.
Summary
The passage from "U.S. v. Cianci" provides a detailed interpretation of what
constitutes an "enterprise" under the RICO statute, specifically highlighting
that an "enterprise" can include illegitimate associations-in-fact. It
emphasizes that such an enterprise is marked by an ongoing organization
and a common purpose, which aligns with the proposition that Morgan and
Daniel's collaboration to achieve a fraudulent goal constitutes an
"association-in-fact" enterprise. The passage also clarifies that not all
members of the enterprise need to have a separate mens rea, as long as they
share a common purpose, which supports the idea that Morgan and Daniel's
shared goal of removing the husband through fraudulent means fits within
this definition.
AIM Recycling of Fla., LLC v. Metals USA, Inc., Case No. 18-cv-60292-
BLOOM/Valle (S.D. Fla. Jan 13, 2020)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Florida
Extract
Section 1961(4) broadly defines 'enterprise' to include 'any individual,
partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or
group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity.' 18 U.S.C.
§ 1961(4). '[A] RICO enterprise need not possess an 'ascertainable structure'

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
distinct from the associations necessary to conduct the pattern of
racketeering activity.' United States v. Goldin Indus., Inc., 219 F.3d 1271,
1274-75 (11th Cir. 2000). Instead, the Supreme Court has explained that the
existence of an enterprise 'is proved by evidence of an ongoing organization,
formal or informal, and by evidence that the various associates function as a
continuing unit.' United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 583 (1981).
Summary
An "association-in-fact" enterprise does not require a formal structure and
can be established by showing that individuals function as a continuing unit
with a common purpose. This supports the proposition that Morgan and
Daniel's collaboration to achieve a fraudulent goal can be considered an
"association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
United States v. Console, 13 F.3d 641 (3rd Cir. 1993)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Third Circuit
Extract
RICO defines an “enterprise” as “any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.” 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4). In United
States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 583, 101 S.Ct. 2524, 2528–29, 69 L.Ed.2d
246 (1981), the Supreme Court stated that an enterprise “is an entity
separate and apart from the pattern of activity in which it engages,” and
that it is “proved by evidence of an ongoing organization, formal or informal,
and by evidence that the various associates function as a continuing unit.”
Summary
Clear definition of what constitutes an "enterprise" under RICO,
emphasizing that it can include any group of individuals associated in fact,
even if not a legal entity. The Supreme Court's interpretation in Turkette
further clarifies that an enterprise is distinct from the pattern of activity and
requires evidence of an ongoing organization where associates function as a
unit. This supports the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's collaboration,
aimed at achieving a common fraudulent purpose, can be considered an
"association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Kruse v. Repp, 543 F.Supp.3d 654 (S.D. Iowa 2021)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Iowa

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
At issue here is the Weller Law Enterprise as an association-in-fact. An
association-in-fact enterprise is a 'broad' category with an 'expansive' reach,
consisting of 'a group of persons associated together for a common purpose
of engaging in a course of conduct,' and is 'proved by evidence of an ongoing
organization, formal or informal, and by evidence that the various associates
function as a continuing unit.' Boyle, 556 U.S. at 944–45, 129 S.Ct. 2237
(quoting Turkette, 452 U.S. at 580, 583, 101 S.Ct. 2524 ). At its core, 'an
association-in-fact enterprise is simply a continuing unit that functions with
a common purpose.' Id. at 948, 129 S.Ct. 2237.
Summary
An "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO is broadly defined and
includes any group of individuals associated together for a common purpose,
whether formal or informal. The passage emphasizes that such an enterprise
is characterized by a continuing unit functioning with a common purpose.
This supports the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's collaboration to
achieve a fraudulent goal can be considered an "association-in-fact"
enterprise under RICO, as they are associated for a common purpose of
engaging in a course of conduct.
United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 101 S.Ct. 2524, 69 L.Ed.2d 246
(1981)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
The term 'enterprise' is defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4) as including 'any
individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and
any union or group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal
entity.' ... The enterprise is an entity, for present purposes a group of
persons associated together for a common purpose of engaging in a course
of conduct. ... The former is proved by evidence of an ongoing organization,
formal or informal, and by evidence that the various associates function as a
continuing unit.
Summary
The U.S. Supreme Court in United States v. Turkette clarified that an
"enterprise" under RICO includes any group of individuals associated in fact,
even if not a legal entity, and that this can encompass both legitimate and
illegitimate enterprises. The Court emphasized that an enterprise is a group
of persons associated together for a common purpose, which can be proven
by evidence of an ongoing organization and that the associates function as a
continuing unit. This directly supports the proposition that the collaboration

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
between Morgan and Daniel, aimed at achieving a common fraudulent
purpose, constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Chambers v. King Buick GMC, LLC, 43 F. Supp. 3d 575 (D. Md. 2014)
U.S. District Court — District of Maryland
Extract
Plaintiff asserts that the King Auto Group Defendants are all separately
incorporated businesses that associate together as 'King Auto Group,' as an
association-in-fact, although there is no formal, legal entity with that name.
These dealerships jointly market and sell vehicles and develop form
documents such as the Buyer's Orders used at each dealership... A RICO
enterprise is characterized by 'continuity, unity, shared purpose and
identifiable structure.' An 'enterprise' requires proof of three elements: (1)
an ongoing organization; (2) associates functioning as a continuing unit; and
(3) the enterprise is an entity 'separate and apart from the pattern of activity
in which it engages.'
Summary
Elements needed to establish an enterprise: an ongoing organization,
associates functioning as a continuing unit, and the enterprise being
separate from the pattern of activity. This supports the idea that Morgan and
Daniel's collaboration could be considered an association-in-fact enterprise
if it meets these criteria.
U.S. v. Bledsoe, 674 F.2d 647 (8th Cir. 1982)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Eighth Circuit
Extract
RICO makes it a crime 'for any person employed by or associated with any
enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of
such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity or
collection of unlawful debt.' 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). The Act defines enterprise
to include 'any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other
legal entity, and any union or group of individuals associated in fact although
not a legal entity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4). ... The Government argues that any
association of individuals can be an enterprise. Under this theory, in any
security or mail fraud case wherein a conspiracy of two or more persons is
formed and two or more overt acts of fraud occur, defendants may be
prosecuted under RICO with its heightened punishment.

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The RICO statute defines an "enterprise" broadly to include any group of
individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity. The passage supports
the idea that a collaboration between two individuals, like Morgan and
Daniel, to commit fraudulent acts can constitute an "association-in-fact"
enterprise under RICO. The passage also highlights that the Government's
argument in similar cases is that any association of individuals committing
predicate acts of fraud can be prosecuted under RICO.
U.S. v. International Longshoremen's Ass'n, 518 F.Supp.2d 422 (E.D. N.Y.
2007)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
RICO broadly defines an 'enterprise' as including 'any individual,
partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or
group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity.' 18 U.S.C.
§ 1961(4). In United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 580, 101 S.Ct. 2524,
69 L.Ed.2d 246 (1981), the Supreme Court recognized that '[t]here is no
restriction upon the associations embraced by the definition: an enterprise
includes any union or group of individuals associated in fact,' including both
legitimate ventures and wholly criminal organizations... The Mazzei court
noted Turkette's observation that in cases where the alleged RICO
enterprise is an illegitimate criminal organization, the evidence necessary to
establish the existence of the enterprise and the pattern of racketeering
activity may coalesce, and held that the evidence necessary to prove the
existence of the enterprise with which Mazzei was allegedly associated and
the evidence necessary to demonstrate the pattern of racketeering activity
in which that enterprise engaged 'coalesce comfortably in the present
action. The government here proved an enterprise that was a 'group of
individuals associated in fact' with evidence establishing a common or
shared purpose among the individuals and evidence that they functioned as
a continuing unit.'
Summary
RICO's definition of an "enterprise" is broad and includes any group of
individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity. The passage
highlights that an enterprise can be a criminal organization and that the
evidence of the enterprise and the pattern of racketeering activity may
overlap. This supports the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's
collaboration to achieve a fraudulent purpose can constitute an "association-
in-fact" enterprise under RICO, as they share a common purpose and
function as a unit.

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
United States v. Kelly, 609 F.Supp.3d 85 (E.D. N.Y. 2022)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
The RICO statute makes it unlawful for 'any person employed by or
associated with any enterprise' whose activities affect interstate or foreign
commerce 'to conduct or participate ... in the conduct of such enterprise's
affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). The
statute further defines 'enterprise' to include 'any ... group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4). As the
Supreme Court has observed, the 'enumeration of included enterprises is
obviously broad,' and 'the term ‘any’ ensures that the definition has a wide
reach.' Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938, 944, 129 S.Ct. 2237, 173 L.Ed.
2d 1265 (2009) (citations omitted); see also United States v. Gershman, 31 F.
4th 80, 96 (2d Cir. 2022) ('Congress defined ‘enterprise’ for purposes of
RICO broadly.')... '[A]n association-in-fact enterprise must have at least three
structural features: a purpose, relationships among those associated with
the enterprise, and longevity sufficient to permit these associates to pursue
the enterprise's purpose.' Boyle, 556 U.S. at 946, 129 S.Ct. 2237. An
association-in-fact enterprise is 'a group of persons associated together for a
common purpose of engaging in a course of conduct.' United States v.
Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 583, 101 S.Ct. 2524, 69 L.Ed.2d 246 (1981)...
Summary
The passage explains that under RICO, an "enterprise" can include any
group of individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity. The
Supreme Court has emphasized the broad scope of this definition. The
passage also outlines the structural features required for an association-in-
fact enterprise: a common purpose, relationships among associates, and
sufficient longevity to pursue the enterprise's purpose. This aligns with the
proposition that Morgan and Daniel's collaboration to achieve a fraudulent
purpose constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
U.S. v. Griffin, 660 F.2d 996 (4th Cir. 1982)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Fourth Circuit
Extract
The substantive 'enterprise' violation of RICO charged to these defendants
includes these essential elements: (1) employment by or association of a
defendant with (2) an 'enterprise' (3) engaged in or affecting interstate
commerce (4) the affairs of which are conducted by or participated in by the
defendant 'through a pattern of racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). It
is now settled after some division within the courts that the enterprise
contemplated may be an illegitimate as well as a legitimate one. Turkette;
accord United States v. Whitehead, 618 F.2d 523, 525 n.1 (4th Cir. 1980).

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Where, as here, the enterprise charged is a wholly criminal one, proof of its
existence may overlap proof of the connecting pattern of racketeering
activity, but 'proof of one does not necessarily establish the other.'
Summary
An "enterprise" can be a group of individuals associated in fact, even if not a
legal entity, and that such an enterprise can be involved in criminal
activities. This supports the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's
collaboration to achieve a fraudulent purpose can be considered an
"association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
M.W. Widoff, P.C. v. Encompass Ins. Co. of America, Case No. 10 C 8159
(N.D. Ill. Mar 02, 2012)
U.S. District Court — Northern District of Illinois
Extract
A RICO enterprise may be a legal entity or an extra-legal association in fact.
United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 583, 101, S.Ct. 2524, 69 L.Ed.2d
246 (1981). An enterprise is an 'entity' or in other words 'a group of persons
associated together for a common purpose of engaging in a course of
conduct.' Id. ... To properly plead an association in fact, a plaintiff must
allege that an organization, formal or informal, that functions as a
continuing unit. Turkette, 452 U.S. at 583. Recently, the Supreme Court has
identified the three structural features of an association in fact for which a
plaintiff must provide sufficient factual allegations such that it is plausible to
infer that the enterprise existed: (1) a purpose; (2) relationships among
those associated with the enterprise; (3) longevity sufficient to permit these
associates to pursue the enterprise's purpose. Boyle v. United States, 556
U.S. 938, —, 129 S.Ct. 2237, 2244, 173 L.Ed.2d 1265 (2009).
Summary
The passage explains that a RICO enterprise can be an association in fact,
which is defined as a group of individuals associated together for a common
purpose. The Supreme Court has outlined that such an association must
have a purpose, relationships among those involved, and sufficient longevity
to pursue the enterprise's purpose. This aligns with the proposition that
Morgan and Daniel's collaboration to achieve a fraudulent goal could be
considered an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
United States v. Larson, 07-CR-304S (W.D. N.Y. Dec 05, 2011)
U.S. District Court — Western District of New York

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Under RICO, an enterprise 'includes any individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of
individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity[.]' 18 U.S.C. §
1961(4). 'This enumeration of included enterprises is obviously broad,
encompassing 'any... group of individuals associated in fact.' Boyle v. United
States, _ U.S. _, 129 S.Ct. 2237, 2243, 173 L.Ed.2d 1265 (2009) (quoting §
1961(4)). The RICO statute provides that its terms are to be 'liberally
construed to effectuate its remedial purposes.' ... The Boyle Court identified
several structural features that must be possessed by an association-in-fact
RICO enterprise: 'a purpose, relationships among those associated with the
enterprise, and longevity sufficient to permit these associates to pursue the
enterprise's purpose.' Id. at 2244.
Summary
The passage explains that under RICO, an "enterprise" can include any
group of individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity. The Boyle
case further clarifies that an association-in-fact enterprise must have a
purpose, relationships among those involved, and sufficient longevity to
pursue its purpose. This supports the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's
collaboration to achieve a common fraudulent purpose could constitute an
"association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Brown v. Hanover Am. Ins. Co., Case No. 2:20-cv-02415 (W.D. Tenn. Jul 14,
2021)
U.S. District Court — Western District of Tennessee
Extract
The Supreme Court has not defined the outer boundaries of a RICO
enterprise, but has explained that 'an enterprise includes any union or group
of individuals associated in fact' and that RICO reaches 'a group of persons
associated together for a common purpose of engaging in a course of
conduct.' Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938, 944 (2009) (citing United
States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 580, 583 (1985)). This sort of enterprise
can be proven by 'evidence of an ongoing organization, formal or informal,
and by evidence that the various associates function as a continuing unit.'
Turkette, 452 U.S. at 583. '[A]n association-in-fact enterprise must have at
least three structural features: a purpose, relationships among those
associated with the enterprise, and longevity sufficient to permit these
associates to pursue the enterprise's purpose.' Boyle, 556 U.S. at 946.
Summary
Structural features required for such an enterprise: a purpose, relationships
among those involved, and sufficient longevity to pursue the enterprise's

=== PAGE 18 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
purpose. This supports the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's
collaboration to achieve a common fraudulent purpose could constitute an
"association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Bennett v. Berg, 685 F.2d 1053 (8th Cir. 1981)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Eighth Circuit
Extract
An 'enterprise' is defined by RICO to include any individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of
individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity(.) 18 U.S.C. §
1961(4). The RICO Act encompasses two kinds of enterprises: legal entities,
and 'associations in fact.' United States v. Turkette, 452 U.S. 576, 581-82,
101 S.Ct. 2524, 2527-28, 69 L.Ed.2d 246 (1981).
Summary
The RICO statute defines an "enterprise" broadly to include not only legal
entities but also "associations in fact." This interpretation is supported by
the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in United States v. Turkette, which
clarifies that an "association in fact" can be a group of individuals associated
together for a common purpose, even if not a legal entity. This supports the
proposition that the collaboration between Morgan and Daniel could be
considered an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO, as they were
working together towards a common fraudulent goal.
Schreier v. Drealan Kvilhaug Hoefker &amp; Co. P.A., 611 F.Supp.3d 746 (D.
Minn. 2020)
U.S. District Court — District of Minnesota
Extract
A RICO enterprise ‘includes any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' Id. at 354 (quoting 18 U.S.C. §
1961(4) ). To show a RICO enterprise, a plaintiff must show: '(1) a common
purpose that animates the individuals associated with it; (2) an ongoing
organization with members who function as a continuing unit; and (3) an
ascertainable structure distinct from the conduct of a pattern of
racketeering.' United States v. Lee, 374 F.3d 637, 647 (8th Cir. 2004)
(citation omitted).

=== PAGE 19 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Criteria for a RICO enterprise, which includes a common purpose, an
ongoing organization, and an ascertainable structure. This directly supports
the proposition that the collaboration between Morgan and Daniel, with a
common purpose of removing the husband through fraudulent means, could
constitute an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
United States v. Denava
U.S. District Court — Northern District of Illinois
Extract
A RICO conspiracy has three elements: (1) an agreement to conduct or
participate in the affairs (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern of
racketeering activity.'” United States v. Brown, 973 F.3d 667, 682 (7th Cir.
2020) (quoting United States v. Olson, 450 F.3d 655, 664 (7th Cir. 2006));
see also Salinas v. United States, 522 U.S. 52, 61-66 (1997); 18 U.S.C. §
1962(d).
Summary
A RICO conspiracy requires an agreement to conduct or participate in the
affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. The
passage supports the proposition by indicating that the collaboration
between Morgan and Daniel, if it involved an agreement to engage in
fraudulent activities (such as preparing and using false court documents),
could constitute an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO. This is
because the definition of an enterprise under RICO is broad and includes
any group of individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity.
McGillvary v. Scutari, 23-cv-22605-JMY (D. N.J. Dec 23, 2024)
U.S. District Court — District of New Jersey
Extract
An “enterprise” as defined by statute includes: “any individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of
individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity.” 18 U.S.C. §
1961(4). Thus, an “association-in-fact” RICO enterprise requires three
features: “a purpose, relationships among those associated with the
enterprise, and longevity sufficient to permit these associates to pursue the
enterprise's purpose.” Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938, 946 (2009)
(“[T]he very concept of an association in fact is expansive[,]” in keeping with
RICO's directive that “its terms are to be liberally construed to effectuate its
remedial purposes.”).

=== PAGE 20 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
An "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO requires a purpose,
relationships among those associated, and longevity to pursue the
enterprise's purpose. The collaboration between Morgan and Daniel to
achieve a common purpose (removing the husband from the family home
through fraudulent means) fits this definition, as they have a shared purpose
and relationship, which could be considered an "association-in-fact" under
RICO.
18 U.S.C. § 1961 18 U.S.C. § 1961 Definitions
Extract
As used in this chapter- ... 'enterprise' includes any individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of
individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity;
Summary
The definition of "enterprise" under RICO includes not only formal legal
entities but also any group of individuals associated in fact, even if not a
legal entity. This broad definition supports the proposition that the
collaboration between Morgan and Daniel, aimed at achieving a common
fraudulent purpose, can be considered an "association-in-fact" enterprise
under RICO.
18 U.S.C. § 1962 18 U.S.C. § 1962 Prohibited Activities
Extract
It shall be unlawful for any person through a pattern of racketeering activity
or through collection of an unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or
indirectly, any interest in or control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or
the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce. It shall be
unlawful for any person employed by or associated with any enterprise
engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce,
to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such
enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity or collection of
unlawful debt. It shall be unlawful for any person to conspire to violate any
of the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section.
Summary
The passage outlines unlawful activities under RICO, including participating
in an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. The definition of
an "enterprise" under RICO includes any group of individuals associated in

=== PAGE 21 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
fact, which aligns with the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's
collaboration constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise. The passage
also addresses the illegality of conspiring to violate RICO provisions, which
supports the notion that their scheme to use false court documents could be
considered a RICO violation.
RICO - the rejection of an economic motive requirement.
Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology - Northwestern University,
School of Law - Randolph, Jennifer G. - 1995-03-22
Extract
Section 1961 (4) states that 'enterprise' includes any individual, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of
individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity.
Summary
Direct interpretation of the term "enterprise" as defined in 18 U.S.C. §
1961(4). It clarifies that an "enterprise" can include any group of individuals
associated in fact, even if they are not a legal entity. This supports the
proposition that the collaboration between Morgan and Daniel, aimed at
achieving a common fraudulent purpose, can be considered an "association-
in-fact" enterprise under RICO. The passage is relevant because it directly
addresses the legal definition of "enterprise" in the context of RICO, which is
central to the proposition.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Argust, Corey P. - 2010-03-22
Extract
An 'enterprise' includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' ... Informal relationships
among entities may suffice to create an 'associated-in-fact' enterprises. ... In
order to be an association-in-fact, the grouping must have a shared purpose,
continuity, and unity. ... Recently, in Boyle v. United States, the Supreme
Court clarified that RICO association-in-fact enterprises need not have 'an
ascertainable structure beyond that inherent in the pattern of racketeering
activity.'

=== PAGE 22 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
An "enterprise" under RICO can include informal associations of individuals
who share a common purpose, continuity, and unity. The Supreme Court's
clarification in Boyle v. United States indicates that such an enterprise does
not need a formal structure beyond the pattern of racketeering activity. This
supports the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's collaboration to achieve a
fraudulent purpose can be considered an "association-in-fact" enterprise
under RICO.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Franklin, Amy - 2008-03-22
Extract
An 'enterprise' includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' ... In order to be an
association-in-fact, the association must have a shared purpose, continuity,
unity, an identifiable structure, and some goals separate from the predicate
acts themselves.
Summary
Such an association must have a shared purpose, continuity, unity, and an
identifiable structure. These elements align with the proposition that
Morgan and Daniel's collaboration to achieve a common fraudulent purpose
could constitute an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Mecone, James Morrison - 2006-03-22
Extract
An 'enterprise' includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.'... A RICO enterprise need not
be part of a formal relationship... In order to be an association-in-fact, the
association must have a shared purpose, continuity, unity, an identifiable
structure, and some goals separate from the predicate acts themselves.

=== PAGE 23 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Definition of an "enterprise" under RICO, which includes any group of
individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity. It further explains
that such an association must have a shared purpose, continuity, unity, and
an identifiable structure. This aligns with the proposition that Morgan and
Daniel's collaboration to achieve a common fraudulent purpose could
constitute an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Chapter 4. Elements of Cause of Action
Civil RICO: A Definitive Guide. Fifth Edition - American Bar
Association - Gregory P. Joseph
Extract
Section 1961(4) provides that the term “‘enterprise’ includes any individual,
partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or
group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity.” This
language is expansive; the word “includes” renders the statutory list
illustrative, not exhaustive. See, e.g., Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938,
944 & n.2 (2009) (“The statute does not specifically define the outer
boundaries of the ‘enterprise’ concept but states that the term ‘includes any
individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and
any union or group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal
entity.’ . . . This provision does not purport to set out an exhaustive definition
of the term ‘enterprise.’”).
Summary
The definition of "enterprise" under RICO is broad and inclusive, covering
any group of individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity. This
supports the proposition that the collaboration between Morgan and Daniel,
aimed at achieving a common fraudulent purpose, can be considered an
"association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Holt, Michael W. - 2009-03-22
Extract
An 'enterprise' includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' ... For RICO purposes, an
enterprise must exist independently from the racketeering activity in which
it engages, ... order to be an association-in-fact, the grouping must have a

=== PAGE 24 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
shared purpose, continuity, and unity. ... When the enterprise is an
association-in-fact without a legal existence, the government must make the
more difficult showing that the constituent entities 'associated together for a
common purpose of engaging in a course of conduct.' According to the
Supreme Court, any type of association can satisfy the enterprise element as
long as it meets this definition.
Summary
An "enterprise" under RICO can include any group of individuals associated
in fact, even if not a legal entity. The passage explains that for an
association-in-fact to qualify as an enterprise, it must have a shared purpose,
continuity, and unity. The collaboration between Morgan and Daniel to
achieve a common purpose (removing the husband from the family home
through fraudulent means) fits this definition, as they are a group of
individuals associated in fact for a common purpose.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Sacks, Michele - 2005-03-22
Extract
An 'enterprise' includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' ... A RICO enterprise need not
be part of a formal relationship. ... In order to be an association-in-fact, the
association must have a shared purpose, continuity, unity, an identifiable
structure, and some goals separate from the predicate acts themselves.
Summary
A RICO enterprise does not need to be a formal entity and can be a group of
individuals associated in fact. This supports the proposition that Morgan and
Daniel's collaboration to achieve a fraudulent goal can be considered an
"association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bagley, Ross - 2007-03-22
Extract
An 'enterprise' includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' ... In order to be an

=== PAGE 25 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
association-in-fact, the association must have a shared purpose, continuity,
unity, an identifiable structure, and some goals separate from the predicate
acts themselves. ... The existence of an association-in-fact requires the more
difficult showing that 'a group of persons associated together for a common
purpose of engaging in a course of conduct.'
Summary
Such an association must have a shared purpose, continuity, unity, and an
identifiable structure. The collaboration between Morgan and Daniel to
achieve a common purpose (removing the husband from the family home
through fraudulent means) fits this definition, as they are a group of
individuals associated together for a common purpose of engaging in a
course of conduct.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Douglass, Sean M. - 2011-03-22
Extract
An 'enterprise' includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' ... In order to be an
association-in-fact, the grouping must have a shared purpose, continuity, and
unity. ... Recently, in Boyle v. United States, the Supreme Court clarified that
RICO association-in-fact enterprises need not have 'an ascertainable
structure beyond that inherent in the pattern of racketeering activity.'
Summary
Such an association-in-fact must have a shared purpose, continuity, and
unity, but does not require a formal structure beyond the pattern of
racketeering activity. This supports the proposition that Morgan and Daniel's
collaboration, with a common purpose of using fraudulent means, could be
considered an association-in-fact enterprise under RICO.
Reflections on Reves v. Ernst & Young: its meaning and impact on
substantive, accessory, aiding abetting and conspiracy liability under RICO.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Blakey, G. Robert - 1996-01-01
Extract
The concept of the 'enterprise' was selected by Congress when it enacted
RICO because it desired to use 'terms and concepts of breadth.' Indeed, the

=== PAGE 26 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
statute itself broadly describes 'enterprise' to include 'any individual,
partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity, and any union or
group of individuals associated in fact although not a legal entity.' Thus, any
legal entity may be an enterprise, and any group of persons--in any
combination of natural and legal persons--may also constitute an enterprise,
even though it is not a legal entity, by being an association-in-fact.
Summary
The passage explains that the term "enterprise" under RICO is intended to
be broad and inclusive, covering any group of individuals associated in fact,
even if not a legal entity. This aligns with the proposition that Morgan and
Daniel's collaboration could be considered an "association-in-fact" enterprise
under RICO, as they are a group of individuals associated for a common
purpose.
Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy
The Brief - American Bar Association - 2024-01-01
Extract
A violation of § 1962(c), the section on which Sedima relies, requires (1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity. The plaintiff must allege each of the elements to state a claim. They
are all equally essential components, and the complaint will fail if any one of
them is not adequately pleaded... A 'racketeering activity' refers to a
violation of a specific statute. For the first element, the plaintiff can show a
'pattern of racketeering activity' by pointing to at least two distinct but
related predicate acts. Related predicate acts have the 'same or similar
purposes, results, participants, victims, or methods.'
Summary
To establish a RICO claim under § 1962(c), there must be conduct of an
enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. The passage explains
that an enterprise can be a structured group of individuals associated for a
common purpose, which aligns with the proposition that Morgan and
Daniel's collaboration constitutes an "association-in-fact" enterprise. The
requirement of a pattern of racketeering activity, involving at least two
related predicate acts, supports the notion that their scheme involving false
court documents could meet this criterion.
RICO: A Primer

=== PAGE 27 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
A RICO enterprise includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' Courts have interpreted
'enterprise' broadly, and the definition captures both legitimate and
illegitimate enterprises.
Summary
The definition of a RICO enterprise is broad and includes any group of
individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity. This supports the
proposition that the collaboration between Morgan and Daniel, aimed at
achieving a common fraudulent purpose, can be considered an "association-
in-fact" enterprise under RICO.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
A RICO enterprise includes 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' Courts have interpreted
'enterprise' broadly, and the definition captures both legitimate and
illegitimate enterprises.
Summary
Broad definition of a RICO enterprise, which includes any group of
individuals associated in fact, even if not a legal entity. This supports the
proposition that the collaboration between Morgan and Daniel can be
considered an "association-in-fact" enterprise under RICO, as their
collaboration fits within the broad interpretation of an enterprise.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of June 11, 2025. View full answer on vLex

