FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-In-a-scenario-where-an-individual-travels-from-Texas-to-Oklahoma-to-prepare-fraudulent-divorce-paper-1.pdf
PAGES: 17
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
In a scenario where an individual travels from Texas to Oklahoma to prepare
fraudulent divorce paperwork, steals $1,576 of jointly-managed marital
assets using a third party in Oklahoma, uses those funds to purchase a
second phone to conceal the activity from their spouse, and then submits
fraudulent divorce documents (including a petition and affidavit of
indigency) to a Texas court, what predicate acts under federal law may be
implicated by these actions?
Answer (U.S. Federal)
Short response
The scenario described implicates several potential federal predicate acts
including wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343), mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341),
interstate travel in aid of racketeering (18 U.S.C. § 1952), and money
laundering (18 U.S.C. § 1956), each arising from different aspects of the
fraudulent scheme spanning two states.
Summary
The actions described in the scenario potentially constitute several federal
predicate acts due to their interstate nature and fraudulent character. The
individual's travel from Texas to Oklahoma to prepare fraudulent divorce
paperwork may trigger the Interstate Travel in Aid of Racketeering statute
(18 U.S.C. § 1952), while the theft of jointly-managed marital assets and
subsequent use of those funds to purchase a second phone to conceal
activity could implicate money laundering provisions (18 U.S.C. § 1956).
Additionally, the submission of fraudulent divorce documents to a Texas
court may constitute mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341) or wire fraud (18 U.S.C. §
1343), depending on the method of transmission.
These actions represent a coordinated scheme spanning multiple
jurisdictions with multiple predicate acts that could potentially form the
basis for federal charges. The conspiracy aspect of the scenario, involving a
third party in Oklahoma to steal the marital assets, may also implicate
conspiracy provisions (18 U.S.C. § 1349). Each of these potential violations
carries significant penalties, including substantial fines and imprisonment
for up to twenty years, as well as potential asset forfeiture under 18 U.S.C. §
982.

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Background and Relevant Federal Law
Mail and Wire Fraud (18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343)
Two of the most commonly implicated federal predicate acts in fraud
schemes are mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341) and wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343).
These statutes are frequently used by federal prosecutors due to their broad
applicability to schemes involving deception across state lines.
Mail fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 prohibits the use of mail or interstate
carriers in furtherance of fraudulent schemes: "Whoever, having devised or
intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money
or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or
promises, ... for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice or
attempting so to do, places in any post office or authorized depository for
mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by the
Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited any matter or thing
whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or commercial interstate
carrier, ... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 20
years, or both."
Similarly, wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343 addresses schemes involving
electronic communications: "Whoever, having devised or intending to devise
any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by
means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises,
transmits or causes to be transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television
communication in interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs,
signals, pictures, or sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or
artifice, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years,
or both."
The elements required to establish mail and wire fraud have been
consistently articulated by federal courts. In Xenos Yuen v. Triple B Servs.
LLP, CIVIL ACTION NO. H-18-3277 (S.D. Tex. Jun 08, 2019), the court stated
that mail and wire fraud require proof of: "(1) a scheme to defraud that
employed false material representations, (2) the use of mail or interstate
wires in furtherance of the scheme, and (3) the specific intent to defraud."
Similarly, in Heden v. Hill, 937 F.Supp. 1230 (S.D. Tex. 1996), the court
specified that "a wire fraud violation consists of (1) the formation of a
scheme or artifice to defraud; (2) use of the United States wires or causing a
use of the United States wires in furtherance of the scheme; and (3) specific
intent to deceive or defraud."
According to a secondary source, Theft offenses (2020-04-29), "Mail fraud,
18 U.S.C. §1341 requires that the defendant devise or intend to devise a
scheme to defraud (or to perform specified fraudulent acts), and that the
defendant use the mail for the purpose of executing, or attempting to
execute, the scheme to defraud. ... Wire fraud, 18 U.S.C. §1343, is very
similar to the mail fraud statute. It adds the requirement of the use of an
interstate telephone call or electronic communication made in furtherance
of the scheme."

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Interstate Travel in Aid of Racketeering (18 U.S.C. § 1952)
The Interstate Travel in Aid of Racketeering Act (ITAR), also known as the
Travel Act, is another potentially applicable federal statute in this scenario. 
18 U.S.C. § 1952 provides: "Whoever travels in interstate or foreign
commerce or uses the mail or any facility in interstate or foreign commerce,
with intent to- distribute the proceeds of any unlawful activity; or commit
any crime of violence to further any unlawful activity; or otherwise promote,
manage, establish, carry on, or facilitate the promotion, management,
establishment, or carrying on, of any unlawful activity, and thereafter
performs or attempts to perform- (A) an act described in paragraph or shall
be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both; or (B)
an act described in paragraph shall be fined under this title, imprisoned for
not more than 20 years, or both, and if death results shall be imprisoned for
any term of years or for life."
In United States v. Boyd, 309 F.Supp.2d 908 (S.D. Tex. 2004), the court
explained that "An ITAR offense involves using interstate travel or the mails
with intent to 'promote, manage, establish, carry on, or facilitate ... any
unlawful activity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1952(a)(3). Securing a conviction requires
proof of 'some act designed to promote or further that illegal purpose.'"
Money Laundering (18 U.S.C. § 1956)
The actions described in the scenario may also implicate federal money
laundering statutes. 18 U.S.C. § 1956 addresses the laundering of monetary
instruments: "Whoever, knowing that the property involved in a financial
transaction represents the proceeds of some form of unlawful activity,
conducts or attempts to conduct such a financial transaction which in fact
involves the proceeds of specified unlawful activity... (B) knowing that the
transaction is designed in whole or in part- (i) to conceal or disguise the
nature, the location, the source, the ownership, or the control of the
proceeds of specified unlawful activity... shall be sentenced to a fine of not
more than $500,000 or twice the value of the property involved in the
transaction, whichever is greater, or imprisonment for not more than twenty
years, or both."
Fraud in Connection with Access Devices (18 U.S.C. § 1029)
Another potentially relevant statute is 18 U.S.C. § 1029, which addresses
fraud related to access devices: "Whoever knowingly and with intent to
defraud produces, uses, or traffics in one or more counterfeit access
devices; knowingly and with intent to defraud traffics in or uses one or more
unauthorized access devices during any one-year period, and by such
conduct obtains anything of value aggregating $1,000 or more during that
period; ... shall, if the offense affects interstate or foreign commerce, be
punished as provided in subsection (c) of this section."

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Attempt and Conspiracy (18 U.S.C. § 1349)
The conspiracy aspect of the scenario may implicate 18 U.S.C. § 1349, which
provides: "Any person who attempts or conspires to commit any offense
under this chapter shall be subject to the same penalties as those prescribed
for the offense, the commission of which was the object of the attempt or
conspiracy."
Criminal Forfeiture (18 U.S.C. § 982)
Additionally, 18 U.S.C. § 982 provides for criminal forfeiture in cases
involving various federal offenses, including mail and wire fraud: "The court,
in imposing sentence on a person convicted of a violation of, or a conspiracy
to violate- ... (E) section 1341 (relating to mail fraud); or (F) section 1343
(relating to wire fraud), ... shall order that the person forfeit to the United
States any property, real or personal, which represents or is traceable to the
gross receipts obtained, directly or indirectly, as a result of such violation."
RICO Predicate Acts (18 U.S.C. § 1961)
The actions described may also constitute predicate acts under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). 18 U.S.C. §
1961 defines "racketeering activity" to include "(B) any act which is
indictable under any of the following provisions of title 18, United States
Code: ... section 1341 (relating to mail fraud), section 1343 (relating to wire
fraud), section 1344 (relating to financial institution fraud), ... section 1951
(relating to interference with commerce, robbery, or extortion), section 1952
(relating to racketeering), section 1956 (relating to the laundering of
monetary instruments), section 1957 (relating to engaging in monetary
transactions in property derived from specified unlawful activity)."
A secondary source, RICO: A Primer (2022-01-31), confirms that "Among
other things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is indictable
under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an expansive range
of violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18 U.S.C. ' 1951
(extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud); 18 U.S.C. '
1831 (economic espionage); 18 U.S.C. ' 1832 (theft of trade secrets); 18
U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act); 18 U.S.C. ' 1956, 1957 (money laundering); and
18 U.S.C. ' 2318-2320 (copyright infringement). Mail and wire fraud are the
most common predicate acts."
Analysis of Potential Federal Predicate Acts
Application of Mail and Wire Fraud Statutes
The described scenario involves the preparation of fraudulent divorce
paperwork and submission of those fraudulent documents (including a
petition and affidavit of indigency) to a Texas court. These actions
potentially constitute a "scheme to defraud" under both the mail and wire
fraud statutes.

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
If the fraudulent divorce documents were submitted to the Texas court via
U.S. mail or a private interstate carrier, this could trigger mail fraud charges
under 18 U.S.C. § 1341. As noted in United States v. Swenson, CRIMINAL
ACTION NO. H-15-402 (S.D. Tex. Sep 27, 2019), "Federal law makes it a
crime for anyone to use the mails or any private or commercial interstate
carrier in carrying out a scheme to defraud."
Similarly, if electronic communications were used in the preparation or
submission of the fraudulent documents, this could implicate the wire fraud
statute (18 U.S.C. § 1343). This would be particularly relevant if emails,
phone calls, text messages, or other electronic communications crossed
state lines during the execution of the scheme, such as communications
between Texas and Oklahoma.
According to Review of Criminal Penalties and Collateral Consequences for
Antitrust and Related Violations (2023-05-07), "Mail and wire fraud are two
of the most common non-antitrust offenses prosecuted by the Antitrust
Division. These fraud offenses involve schemes to defraud and the
deprivation of money and property through the use of the mails or wire
communications. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act")
increased the maximum prison term for mail and wire fraud from five to
twenty years..."
The elements required for mail and wire fraud would likely be satisfied in
this scenario:
A scheme to defraud: The preparation of fraudulent divorce paperwork
and submission of false documents to the court.
Use of mail or interstate wires: Depending on how the documents were
prepared and submitted.
Specific intent to defraud: The deliberate preparation of fraudulent
documents and the concealment of activities through the purchase of a
second phone demonstrate intent.
Application of Interstate Travel in Aid of Racketeering
The scenario explicitly involves travel from Texas to Oklahoma to prepare
fraudulent divorce paperwork, which potentially implicates the Interstate
Travel in Aid of Racketeering Act (18 U.S.C. § 1952). The individual's
interstate travel appears to have been undertaken with the intent to
"promote, manage, establish, carry on, or facilitate" unlawful activity—
specifically, the preparation of fraudulent documents and theft of marital
assets.
As outlined in United States v. Boyd, 309 F.Supp.2d 908 (S.D. Tex. 2004), an
ITAR offense requires "using interstate travel or the mails with intent to
'promote, manage, establish, carry on, or facilitate ... any unlawful activity'"
and "proof of 'some act designed to promote or further that illegal purpose.'"
The act of traveling to Oklahoma to prepare fraudulent documents, coupled
with the theft of marital assets while there, likely satisfies these elements.
1. 
2. 
3. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Application of Money Laundering Provisions
The theft of $1,576 in jointly-managed marital assets and subsequent use of
those funds to purchase a second phone to conceal activities may implicate
federal money laundering statutes under 18 U.S.C. § 1956. The statute
applies to anyone who, "knowing that the property involved in a financial
transaction represents the proceeds of some form of unlawful activity,"
conducts a financial transaction "knowing that the transaction is designed in
whole or in part to conceal or disguise the nature, the location, the source,
the ownership, or the control of the proceeds of specified unlawful activity."
In this scenario, the stolen marital assets represent the proceeds of unlawful
activity (theft), and the purchase of the second phone represents a financial
transaction designed to conceal the fraudulent activities. The fact that the
individual specifically used the stolen funds to purchase a second phone for
the purpose of concealment suggests knowledge and intent to disguise the
source and nature of the funds, which aligns with the elements of money
laundering.
Application of Fraud in Connection with Access Devices
If the theft of marital assets involved unauthorized use of access devices
(such as credit cards, debit cards, or other financial accounts), this could
potentially implicate 18 U.S.C. § 1029. The statute applies to anyone who
"knowingly and with intent to defraud traffics in or uses one or more
unauthorized access devices during any one-year period, and by such
conduct obtains anything of value aggregating $1,000 or more during that
period."
The theft of $1,576 exceeds the $1,000 threshold specified in the statute. If
the theft involved unauthorized access to financial accounts or the use of
unauthorized access devices, and if the offense affected interstate commerce
(which the interstate nature of the scheme suggests), then this statute could
apply.
Application of Attempt and Conspiracy Provisions
The scenario mentions the involvement of a third party in Oklahoma to steal
the marital assets, which suggests a conspiracy to commit fraud. Under 18
U.S.C. § 1349, "Any person who attempts or conspires to commit any offense
under this chapter shall be subject to the same penalties as those prescribed
for the offense, the commission of which was the object of the attempt or
conspiracy."
This means that even if certain elements of the underlying offenses (such as
mail fraud, wire fraud, or access device fraud) were not fully completed, the
individual could still be subject to the same penalties under conspiracy
provisions.
As noted in Review of Criminal Penalties and Collateral Consequences for
Antitrust and Related Violations (2023-05-07), "as part of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act, the U.S. Congress enacted a new statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1349, which

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
provides that any defendant who attempts or conspires to commit mail or
wire fraud or certain other frauds may be sentenced up to the same
maximum penalties that are prescribed..."
Potential RICO Implications
The pattern of activities described in the scenario—involving interstate
travel, fraud, and possibly money laundering—could potentially constitute a
pattern of racketeering activity under RICO (18 U.S.C. § 1961 et seq.). RICO
is designed to address patterns of criminal activity that involve multiple
predicate acts.
As outlined in RICO: A Primer (2022-01-31), "racketeering activities" include
violations of various federal statutes, including mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341),
wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343), the Travel Act (18 U.S.C. § 1952), and money
laundering (18 U.S.C. §§ 1956, 1957). The primer notes that "Mail and wire
fraud are the most common predicate acts" under RICO.
While a single scheme with multiple predicate acts may not always be
sufficient to establish a RICO violation (which typically requires a pattern of
racketeering activity over time), the multiple predicate acts in this scenario
could potentially form the basis for RICO charges, depending on the specific
circumstances and history.
Potential Penalties and Forfeiture
Implications
The predicate acts identified above carry significant penalties. Mail and wire
fraud are both punishable by fines and imprisonment for up to 20 years
under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341 and 1343. Similarly, money laundering under 18
U.S.C. § 1956 carries penalties of fines up to $500,000 or twice the value of
the property involved, or imprisonment for up to 20 years, or both.
Additionally, under 18 U.S.C. § 982, a conviction for mail fraud, wire fraud,
or related offenses could result in criminal forfeiture of "any property, real
or personal, which represents or is traceable to the gross receipts obtained,
directly or indirectly, as a result of such violation." This could potentially
include not only the stolen $1,576 but also the second phone purchased with
those funds and any other property obtained through the fraudulent scheme.
Exceptions and Caveats
Jurisdictional Considerations
Federal jurisdiction typically requires an interstate element, which is clearly
present in this scenario due to the travel between Texas and Oklahoma.
However, the exact application of federal law would depend on specific
details not fully provided in the scenario.

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
For mail fraud, the use of the U.S. Postal Service or private interstate
carriers would need to be established. Similarly, for wire fraud, the use of
interstate wire communications would need to be proven. The scenario does
not specify how the fraudulent documents were submitted to the Texas
court, which could affect the applicability of these statutes.
Evidentiary Requirements
Proving the elements of each predicate act would require specific evidence.
For example, establishing mail or wire fraud would require evidence of the
use of mail or wire communications in furtherance of the scheme. Similarly,
proving money laundering would require evidence that the transaction was
designed to conceal or disguise the nature, source, or ownership of the
proceeds.
The scenario provides limited details about the specific actions taken and
the evidence available, which could affect the viability of federal charges for
the predicate acts identified.
State vs. Federal Prosecution
While this analysis focuses on potential federal predicate acts, it's worth
noting that the actions described could also violate various state laws in
both Texas and Oklahoma. The decision to pursue federal charges versus
state charges would depend on various factors, including the severity of the
offense, the interstate nature of the conduct, and prosecutorial discretion.
Conclusion
The scenario described—involving interstate travel to prepare fraudulent
divorce paperwork, theft of marital assets, concealment of activities through
the purchase of a second phone, and submission of fraudulent documents to
a court—potentially implicates multiple federal predicate acts.
The most likely applicable federal statutes include:
Mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341) if the U.S. mail or private interstate
carriers were used to submit the fraudulent documents.
Wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343) if interstate wire communications were
used in the execution of the scheme.
Interstate Travel in Aid of Racketeering (18 U.S.C. § 1952) due to the
travel from Texas to Oklahoma to prepare fraudulent documents and
engage in unlawful activities.
Money laundering (18 U.S.C. § 1956) related to the use of stolen funds
to purchase a second phone with the intent to conceal activities.
Fraud in connection with access devices (18 U.S.C. § 1029) if the theft
involved unauthorized use of access devices and exceeded the $1,000
threshold.
Attempt and conspiracy provisions (18 U.S.C. § 1349) due to the
involvement of a third party in the theft of marital assets.
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Each of these potential predicate acts carries significant penalties, including
substantial fines and imprisonment for up to 20 years, as well as potential
asset forfeiture under 18 U.S.C. § 982.
The interstate nature of the conduct, involving actions in both Texas and
Oklahoma, strengthens the case for federal jurisdiction. The coordination of
activities across state lines, the involvement of a third party, and the use of
stolen funds to further the fraudulent scheme all contribute to the potential
applicability of federal law to these actions.
While the specific charges would depend on the details of the case and the
evidence available, the scenario described presents a compelling case for
multiple federal predicate acts arising from a coordinated scheme to
defraud.
Legal Authorities
United States v. Swenson, CRIMINAL ACTION NO. H-15-402 (S.D. Tex. Sep
27, 2019)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
Federal law makes it a crime for anyone to use the mails or any private or
commercial interstate carrier in carrying out a scheme to defraud.
Summary
Federal law criminalizes the use of mail or interstate carriers to execute a
scheme to defraud. This is relevant to the question as the individual's
actions involve interstate travel and potentially using interstate
communication methods to carry out fraudulent activities, which could
implicate federal mail or wire fraud statutes.
Xenos Yuen v. Triple B Servs. LLP, CIVIL ACTION NO. H-18-3277 (S.D. Tex.
Jun 08, 2019)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
Mail fraud and wire fraud require proof of: &#34;(1) a scheme to defraud
that employed false material representations, (2) the use of mail or
interstate wires in furtherance of the scheme, and (3) the specific intent to
defraud.&#34; United States v. Hoffman, 901 F.3d 523, 545 (5th Cir. 2018),
as revised (Aug. 28, 2018), cert. denied, No. 18-1049, 2019 WL 536773 (U.S.
May 20, 2019).

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Elements required to establish mail and wire fraud under federal law. These
elements include a scheme to defraud using false representations, the use of
mail or interstate wires to further the scheme, and the specific intent to
defraud. In the scenario described, the individual engaged in a scheme to
defraud by preparing fraudulent divorce paperwork and using stolen funds
to conceal the activity. If interstate wires or mail were used in furtherance of
this scheme, it could potentially implicate mail or wire fraud under federal
law.
Heden v. Hill, 937 F.Supp. 1230 (S.D. Tex. 1996)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
Similarly, a wire fraud violation consists of (1) the formation of a scheme or
artifice to defraud; (2) use of the United States wires or causing a use of the
United States wires in furtherance of the scheme; and (3) specific intent to
deceive or defraud.
Summary
Elements required to establish a wire fraud violation under federal law.
These elements include the formation of a scheme to defraud, the use of U.S.
wires to further the scheme, and the specific intent to deceive. In the
scenario described, if the individual used electronic communications (such
as phone calls, emails, or other forms of wire communication) to execute or
conceal the fraudulent activities, this could potentially constitute wire fraud.
The passage is relevant as it provides the legal framework for understanding
how wire fraud could be implicated in the described actions.
United States v. Boyd, 309 F.Supp.2d 908 (S.D. Tex. 2004)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
An ITAR offense involves using interstate travel or the mails with intent to
'promote, manage, establish, carry on, or facilitate ... any unlawful activity.'
18 U.S.C. § 1952(a)(3). Securing a conviction requires proof of 'some act
designed to promote or further that illegal purpose.'
Summary
The passage from United States v. Boyd discusses the Interstate
Transportation in Aid of Racketeering Act (ITAR), which criminalizes the use

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
of interstate travel or mail to promote or facilitate unlawful activities. In the
scenario described, the individual travels from Texas to Oklahoma to engage
in fraudulent activities, which could potentially fall under the scope of ITAR
if the travel was intended to promote or facilitate the fraudulent divorce
paperwork and theft of marital assets. The passage provides insight into
how such actions could be considered a predicate act under federal law.
18 U.S.C. § 1343 18 U.S.C. § 1343 Fraud By Wire, Radio, Or Television
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be
transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication in
interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or
sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be fined
under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1343 addresses schemes to defraud that involve the transmission
of communications via wire, radio, or television in interstate or foreign
commerce. In the scenario described, the individual traveled from Texas to
Oklahoma and engaged in fraudulent activities, including the preparation of
fraudulent divorce paperwork and the theft of marital assets. If any part of
this scheme involved the use of wire communications (such as phone calls,
emails, or other electronic communications) across state lines, it could
potentially fall under the purview of this statute.
18 U.S.C. § 1341 18 U.S.C. § 1341 Frauds and Swindles
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, ... for the purpose of executing
such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, places in any post office or
authorized depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be
sent or delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited
any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or
commercial interstate carrier, ... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned
not more than 20 years, or both.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1341 addresses schemes to defraud that involve the use of mail
or interstate carriers. In the scenario described, if the fraudulent divorce

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
documents or any related communications were sent via mail or an
interstate carrier, this statute could be implicated. The statute provides for
fines and imprisonment for those who use mail or carriers to execute or
attempt to execute a scheme to defraud.
18 U.S.C. § 1029 18 U.S.C. § 1029 Fraud and Related Activity In Connection
With Access Devices
Extract
Whoever knowingly and with intent to defraud produces, uses, or traffics in
one or more counterfeit access devices; knowingly and with intent to
defraud traffics in or uses one or more unauthorized access devices during
any one-year period, and by such conduct obtains anything of value
aggregating $1,000 or more during that period; ... shall, if the offense
affects interstate or foreign commerce, be punished as provided in
subsection (c) of this section.
Summary
The passage from 18 U.S.C. § 1029 outlines offenses related to the use of
counterfeit or unauthorized access devices with the intent to defraud,
particularly when the value obtained is $1,000 or more. In the scenario
described, the individual stole $1,576, which exceeds the $1,000 threshold,
and used those funds to purchase a second phone. This action could
potentially be considered as using an unauthorized access device to obtain
something of value, especially if the funds were accessed through electronic
means or involved any form of access device. The interstate nature of the
actions (traveling from Texas to Oklahoma) further supports the applicability
of this federal statute.
18 U.S.C. § 1952 18 U.S.C. § 1952 Interstate and Foreign Travel Or
Transportation In Aid of Racketeering Enterprises
Extract
Whoever travels in interstate or foreign commerce or uses the mail or any
facility in interstate or foreign commerce, with intent to- distribute the
proceeds of any unlawful activity; or commit any crime of violence to further
any unlawful activity; or otherwise promote, manage, establish, carry on, or
facilitate the promotion, management, establishment, or carrying on, of any
unlawful activity, and thereafter performs or attempts to perform- (A) an act
described in paragraph or shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not
more than 5 years, or both; or (B) an act described in paragraph shall be
fined under this title, imprisoned for not more than 20 years, or both, and if
death results shall be imprisoned for any term of years or for life.

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage from 18 U.S.C. § 1952 addresses the use of interstate travel or
facilities in interstate commerce with the intent to distribute proceeds of
unlawful activity or to promote or facilitate unlawful activity. In the scenario
described, the individual travels from Texas to Oklahoma to engage in
fraudulent activities, which could be considered as using interstate
commerce to facilitate unlawful activity. This aligns with the provisions of 18
U.S.C. § 1952, which could potentially be implicated in this case.
18 U.S.C. § 982 18 U.S.C. § 982 Criminal Forfeiture
Extract
The court, in imposing sentence on a person convicted of a violation of, or a
conspiracy to violate- ... (E) section 1341 (relating to mail fraud); or (F)
section 1343 (relating to wire fraud), ... shall order that the person forfeit to
the United States any property, real or personal, which represents or is
traceable to the gross receipts obtained, directly or indirectly, as a result of
such violation.
Summary
The passage from 18 U.S.C. § 982 discusses the forfeiture of property in
cases where a person is convicted of certain offenses, including mail fraud
(section 1341) and wire fraud (section 1343). In the scenario described, the
fraudulent activities, including the submission of fraudulent documents and
the concealment of activities, could potentially involve mail or wire fraud if
they involved the use of mail or electronic communications to execute the
scheme. Therefore, the passage is relevant as it outlines the potential
consequences, such as forfeiture, for such violations.
18 U.S.C. § 1961 18 U.S.C. § 1961 Definitions
Extract
As used in this chapter- 'racketeering activity' means (A) any act or threat
involving murder, kidnapping, gambling, arson, robbery, bribery, extortion,
dealing in obscene matter, or dealing in a controlled substance or listed
chemical (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act), which
is chargeable under State law and punishable by imprisonment for more
than one year; (B) any act which is indictable under any of the following
provisions of title 18, United States Code: ... section 1341 (relating to mail
fraud), section 1343 (relating to wire fraud), section 1344 (relating to
financial institution fraud), ... section 1951 (relating to interference with
commerce, robbery, or extortion), section 1952 (relating to racketeering),
section 1956 (relating to the laundering of monetary instruments), section

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
1957 (relating to engaging in monetary transactions in property derived
from specified unlawful activity), ...
Summary
The actions described in the scenario could potentially involve predicate
acts under federal law, specifically those related to fraud and racketeering.
The use of fraudulent divorce paperwork and the concealment of activities
through a second phone could implicate mail fraud (section 1341) and wire
fraud (section 1343). The theft of marital assets and their use in furtherance
of fraudulent activities could also relate to financial institution fraud (section
1344) and engaging in monetary transactions in property derived from
specified unlawful activity (section 1957).
18 U.S.C. § 1956 18 U.S.C. § 1956 Laundering of Monetary Instruments
Extract
Whoever, knowing that the property involved in a financial transaction
represents the proceeds of some form of unlawful activity, conducts or
attempts to conduct such a financial transaction which in fact involves the
proceeds of specified unlawful activity... (B) knowing that the transaction is
designed in whole or in part- (i) to conceal or disguise the nature, the
location, the source, the ownership, or the control of the proceeds of
specified unlawful activity... shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than
$500,000 or twice the value of the property involved in the transaction,
whichever is greater, or imprisonment for not more than twenty years, or
both.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1956 addresses the laundering of monetary instruments, which
includes conducting financial transactions with the intent to conceal the
nature, source, or ownership of proceeds from unlawful activities. In the
scenario described, the individual used stolen marital assets to purchase a
phone to conceal their activities, which could be seen as an attempt to
disguise the source and nature of the funds. This aligns with the predicate
acts described in the statute.
18 U.S.C. § 1349 18 U.S.C. § 1349 Attempt and Conspiracy
Extract
Any person who attempts or conspires to commit any offense under this
chapter shall be subject to the same penalties as those prescribed for the
offense, the commission of which was the object of the attempt or
conspiracy.

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Individuals who attempt or conspire to commit such offenses are subject to
the same penalties as those who actually commit the offenses. This is
relevant to the question because the actions described involve fraudulent
activities, which may fall under the offenses covered by Chapter 63.
Theft offenses
Defending Specific Crimes - James Publishing - Timothy E. Zerillo -
2020-04-29
Extract
Mail fraud, 18 U.S.C. §1341 requires that the defendant devise or intend to
devise a scheme to defraud (or to perform specified fraudulent acts), and
that the defendant use the mail for the purpose of executing, or attempting
to execute, the scheme to defraud. ... Wire fraud, 18 U.S.C. §1343, is very
similar to the mail fraud statute. It adds the requirement of the use of an
interstate telephone call or electronic communication made in furtherance
of the scheme.
Summary
Elements of mail fraud and wire fraud under federal law, which include
devising a scheme to defraud and using mail or interstate communications
to execute the scheme. In the scenario described, the individual engaged in
fraudulent activities that involved interstate travel and potentially the use of
mail or electronic communications to submit fraudulent documents and
conceal their actions. This aligns with the elements of mail and wire fraud as
described in the passage.
Review of Criminal Penalties and Collateral Consequences for Antitrust and
Related Violations
Antitrust Cartel Leniency and Sentencing Handbook - American Bar
Association - 2023-05-07
Extract
Mail and wire fraud are two of the most common non-antitrust offenses
prosecuted by the Antitrust Division. These fraud offenses involve schemes
to defraud and the deprivation of money and property through the use of the
mails or wire communications. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the
“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) increased the maximum prison term for mail and wire
fraud from five to twenty years... Also, as part of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the
U.S. Congress enacted a new statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1349, which provides that
any defendant who attempts or conspires to commit mail or wire fraud or

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
certain other frauds may be sentenced up to the same maximum penalties
that are prescribed... The Antitrust Division has prosecuted defendants in
multiple industries for mail or wire fraud and conspiracy to commit mail or
wire fraud, including the financial services, real estate, and government
contracting industries.
Summary
Mail and wire fraud are federal offenses that involve schemes to defraud and
the deprivation of money and property through the use of mails or wire
communications. The passage also highlights that attempts or conspiracies
to commit these frauds are punishable under 18 U.S.C. § 1349, with
penalties equivalent to those for the underlying fraud. This is relevant to the
scenario described, as the actions of preparing fraudulent documents,
stealing assets, and concealing activities could involve the use of mail or
wire communications, thus potentially implicating mail and wire fraud
statutes.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
Among other things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is
indictable under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an
expansive range of violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18
U.S.C. ' 1951 (extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud);
18 U.S.C. ' 1831 (economic espionage); 18 U.S.C. ' 1832 (theft of trade
secrets); 18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act); 18 U.S.C. ' 1956, 1957 (money
laundering); and 18 U.S.C. ' 2318-2320 (copyright infringement). Mail and
wire fraud are the most common predicate acts.
Summary
The actions described in the question could potentially involve predicate
acts under federal law, specifically mail fraud (18 U.S.C. ' 1341) and wire
fraud (18 U.S.C. ' 1343), as these are common predicate acts under RICO.
Additionally, the Travel Act (18 U.S.C. ' 1952) could be implicated due to the
interstate nature of the activities.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
Among other things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is
indictable under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an
expansive range of violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18
U.S.C. ' 1951 (extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud);
18 U.S.C. ' 1831 (economic espionage); 18 U.S.C. ' 1832 (theft of trade

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
secrets); 18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act); 18 U.S.C. ' 1956, 1957 (money
laundering); and 18 U.S.C. ' 2318-2320 (copyright infringement). Mail and
wire fraud are the most common predicate acts.
Summary
The actions described in the question could potentially involve predicate
acts under federal law, specifically mail fraud and wire fraud, which are
common predicate acts under the RICO statute. The use of fraudulent
documents and the concealment of activities through the purchase of a
second phone could involve wire fraud, while the submission of fraudulent
documents to a court could involve mail fraud if the documents were sent
through the mail.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of June 20, 2025. View full answer on vLex

