FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-If-someone-in-oklahoma-invites-someone-to-his-house-and-that-person-lives-in-Texas--and-their-whole--1.pdf
PAGES: 19
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
If someone in oklahoma invites someone to his house and that person lives
in Texas, and their whole plan is to submit false documents to the texas
courts to deprive another of their home, and this succeeds after submitting
the false documents to the state court, does their actions raise a federal
question and can they be sued in federal court? 
Answer (U.S. Federal)
Legal Research Analysis: Federal
Question Jurisdiction in Cross-
State Fraud Case
Short response
The described actions likely raise a federal question and can be sued in
federal court if the plaintiff can establish violations of federal laws such as
mail or wire fraud statutes (18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343) or bring a civil RICO
claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1964 based on the interstate fraud scheme. The
cross-state nature of the fraudulent activity involving Oklahoma and Texas,
combined with the use of false documents to deprive someone of property,
potentially implicates federal jurisdiction.
Summary
The scenario described involves individuals from different states (Oklahoma
and Texas) who conspire to submit false documents to Texas courts for the
purpose of depriving another person of their home. This cross-state
fraudulent scheme likely raises a federal question that would allow the case
to be heard in federal court under 28 U.S.C. § 1331, which provides federal
courts with jurisdiction over "civil actions arising under the Constitution,
laws, or treaties of the United States."
Specifically, the described conduct potentially violates federal mail fraud (18
U.S.C. § 1341) or wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343) statutes if the false
documents were transmitted through mail, wire, or electronic
communication across state lines. Additionally, the systematic nature of the
scheme could constitute racketeering activity under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), allowing for a civil action
under 18 U.S.C. § 1964, which establishes federal jurisdiction for RICO
claims. The interstate nature of the scheme, involving actors from different
states coordinating to commit fraud through the judicial system, creates the
necessary nexus to federal law required for federal question jurisdiction.

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Background and Relevant Law
Federal Question Jurisdiction - General Principles
Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction, as opposed to state courts
which are generally courts of general jurisdiction. Federal jurisdiction may
be based on either the presence of a federal question or on diversity of
citizenship. Moye v. Creighton, No. 3:17-cv-01984-HZ (D. Or. Feb 01, 2018)
("Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction... Federal jurisdiction may
be based on the presence of a federal question or on diversity of
citizenship.").
Under 28 U.S.C. § 1331, federal courts have "original jurisdiction over civil
actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United
States." Taylor v. Rockyou, Inc., No. 4:18-cv-00849-HEA (E.D. Mo. Aug 29,
2019) ("Federal question jurisdiction gives district courts 'original
jurisdiction over civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties
of the United States.'").
The determination of whether a case "arises under" federal law is governed
by the "well-pleaded complaint rule," which provides that "jurisdiction exists
only when a federal question is presented on the face of a plaintiff's properly
pleaded complaint." Haulmark Servs., Inc. v. Solid Grp. Trucking, Inc., CIVIL
ACTION H-14-0568 (S.D. Tex. Nov 05, 2014) ("Under the well-pleaded
complaint rule, 'a federal court has original or removal jurisdiction only if a
federal question appears on the face of the plaintiff's well-pleaded
complaint' and 'generally there is no federal jurisdiction if the plaintiff
properly pleads only a state law cause of action.'").
It is important to note that the mere presence of a federal issue in a state
law claim does not automatically confer federal jurisdiction. Texas v.
Clubcorp Holdings, 1:19-CV-00171-LY (W.D. Tex. Nov 05, 2019) ("The
Supreme Court has called this category of federal question cases 'special
and small,' ... and directed that federal courts not treat ''federal issue' as a
password opening federal courts to any state action embracing a point of
federal law.'").
Applicable Federal Statutes
Several federal statutes may be relevant to the scenario described in the
question:
Mail Fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341): This statute prohibits using the mail
system or private interstate carriers as part of a scheme to defraud. 18
U.S.C. § 1341 Frauds and Swindles, 18 U.S.C. § 1341 ("Whoever, having
devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for
obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises... for the purpose of executing such
scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, places in any post office or
authorized depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to
be sent or delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be
1. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
deposited any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by any
private or commercial interstate carrier... shall be fined under this title
or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.").
Wire Fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343): This statute prohibits the use of
interstate wire communications (including telephone, email, or other
electronic communications) in furtherance of a scheme to defraud. 18
U.S.C. § 1343 Fraud By Wire, Radio, Or Television, 18 U.S.C. § 1343
("Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice
to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or
fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or causes
to be transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication
in interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures,
or sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be
fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.").
RICO Act - Prohibited Activities (18 U.S.C. § 1962): This provision
makes it unlawful to engage in a pattern of racketeering activity that
affects interstate commerce. 18 U.S.C. § 1962 Prohibited Activities, 18
U.S.C. § 1962 ("It shall be unlawful for any person through a pattern of
racketeering activity or through collection of an unlawful debt to
acquire or maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest in or control of
any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect,
interstate or foreign commerce.").
RICO Act - Civil Remedies (18 U.S.C. § 1964): This provision
establishes a civil cause of action for persons injured by violations of 18
U.S.C. § 1962. 18 U.S.C. § 1964 Civil Remedies, 18 U.S.C. § 1964 ("Any
person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he
sustains and the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's
fee...").
Venue Statute (18 U.S.C. § 3237): This statute addresses the proper
venue for prosecuting offenses begun in one district and completed in
another. 18 U.S.C. § 3237 Offenses Begun In One District and
Completed In Another, 18 U.S.C. § 3237 ("Except as otherwise
expressly provided by enactment of Congress, any offense against the
United States begun in one district and completed in another, or
committed in more than one district, may be inquired of and prosecuted
in any district in which such offense was begun, continued, or
completed.").
Relevant Case Law
Federal courts have established certain principles for determining when
state law claims may give rise to federal question jurisdiction. As noted in 
Austin v. Ameriquest Mortg. Co., 510 F.Supp.2d 1218 (N.D. Ga. 2007): "A
plaintiff who has only pled state law causes of action may be subject to
federal jurisdiction if (1) his/her state-law claims raise substantial federal
questions; or (2) federal law completely preempts his/her state-law claims."
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
For federal question jurisdiction to exist, there must be a substantial federal
issue at stake. Anderson v. Woodreal Estates 506 LLC, Civil Action 24-
cv-1520 (W.D. La. Nov 08, 2024) notes: "Generally, under section 1331, a suit
arises under federal law if there appears on the face of the complaint some
substantial, disputed question of federal law."
In the context of fraud schemes that cross state lines, the Eleventh Circuit
has recognized federal question jurisdiction in cases involving federal mail
and wire fraud as predicate acts. In re Bridgestone/Firestone Tires Products
Liab., 203 F.Supp.2d 1032 (S.D. Ind. 2002) states that federal question
jurisdiction can exist where there is "the necessity for Plaintiffs to prove, as
an essential element of their state law cause of action, the existence of
federal mail and wire fraud crimes as predicate acts, which crimes would be
enforceable in a federal civil RICO cause of action."
Secondary Materials
Civil RICO claims can provide a pathway to federal court for cases involving
interstate fraud schemes. Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy notes: "Civil RICO
can be utilized by institutions, corporations, banks, brokerage firms, and a
bevy of other individuals and associations as plaintiffs and by defendants as
counterclaims. The civil RICO cause of action is created by 18 U.S.C. §
1964(c)...since an action under RICO arises under federal law, a plaintiff can
elect to have access to federal court."
Analysis
Application of Mail and Wire Fraud Statutes
In the scenario described, individuals from Oklahoma and Texas conspired
to submit false documents to Texas courts for the purpose of depriving
another person of their home. If these false documents were transmitted
either through mail (using the U.S. Postal Service or a private interstate
carrier) or through electronic means across state lines, the conduct could
potentially violate the federal mail fraud statute (18 U.S.C. § 1341) or wire
fraud statute (18 U.S.C. § 1343).
The mail fraud statute applies when someone "places in any post office or
authorized depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be
sent or delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited
any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or
commercial interstate carrier" as part of a "scheme or artifice to defraud." 
18 U.S.C. § 1341 Frauds and Swindles, 18 U.S.C. § 1341. Similarly, the wire
fraud statute applies when someone "transmits or causes to be transmitted
by means of wire, radio, or television communication in interstate or foreign
commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or sounds for the purpose
of executing such scheme or artifice." 18 U.S.C. § 1343 Fraud By Wire,
Radio, Or Television, 18 U.S.C. § 1343.
Given that the individuals are from different states (Oklahoma and Texas),
and the documents were submitted to Texas courts, it is reasonable to

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
assume that interstate communications occurred in furtherance of the
scheme. If the false documents were sent by mail across state lines or if the
conspirators communicated about their scheme using interstate wires
(phone, email, etc.), these actions could constitute violations of federal law,
thereby creating a federal question that would allow the case to be heard in
federal court.
Civil RICO Claims
Beyond the mail and wire fraud statutes, the scenario described potentially
implicates the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act,
specifically the civil remedies provision in 18 U.S.C. § 1964. This provision
allows "[a]ny person injured in his business or property by reason of a
violation of section 1962 of this chapter" to "sue therefor in any appropriate
United States district court." 18 U.S.C. § 1964 Civil Remedies, 18 U.S.C. §
1964.
Section 1962 makes it unlawful for any person "through a pattern of
racketeering activity or through collection of an unlawful debt to acquire or
maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest in or control of any enterprise
which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce." 18 U.S.C. § 1962 Prohibited Activities, 18 U.S.C. § 1962.
Racketeering activity includes mail fraud and wire fraud, among other
federal crimes.
In the scenario described, if the submission of false documents to Texas
courts was part of a "pattern of racketeering activity" (which generally
requires at least two predicate acts within a ten-year period), and if this
activity was used to "acquire or maintain" an interest in property (the
home), and if these activities affected interstate commerce (which they likely
did, given the cross-state nature of the scheme), then the victim could
potentially bring a civil RICO claim in federal court.
As noted in Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy: "Civil RICO can be utilized by
institutions, corporations, banks, brokerage firms, and a bevy of other
individuals and associations as plaintiffs and by defendants as
counterclaims...since an action under RICO arises under federal law, a
plaintiff can elect to have access to federal court."
The cross-state nature of the conspiracy (Oklahoma and Texas) and the
involvement of state courts (Texas) in the fraudulent scheme creates a
sufficient nexus to interstate commerce to potentially satisfy the
requirements of a civil RICO claim. If successful, the victim could recover
"threefold the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including a
reasonable attorney's fee." 18 U.S.C. § 1964 Civil Remedies, 18 U.S.C. §
1964.
Well-Pleaded Complaint Rule
For federal question jurisdiction to exist, the federal issue must appear on
the face of the plaintiff's well-pleaded complaint. Taylor v. Rockyou, Inc., No.
4:18-cv-00849-HEA (E.D. Mo. Aug 29, 2019) states: "Whether a claim arises

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
under federal law is determined by reference to the 'well-pleaded
complaint.' The well-pleaded complaint rule provides that jurisdiction exists
only when a federal question is presented on the face of a plaintiff's properly
pleaded complaint."
In the scenario described, the plaintiff would need to explicitly allege
violations of federal law (such as mail fraud, wire fraud, or RICO violations)
in their complaint in order to establish federal question jurisdiction. A
complaint that merely alleges state law claims like fraud, forgery, or
conspiracy would generally not be sufficient to establish federal question
jurisdiction, even if the underlying facts could potentially give rise to federal
claims.
However, as noted in Austin v. Ameriquest Mortg. Co., 510 F.Supp.2d 1218
(N.D. Ga. 2007): "A state law claim raises a substantial federal question
when federal law forms an essential element of plaintiff's claim, and 'the
federal right or immunity that forms the basis of the claim must be such that
the claim will be supported if the federal law is given one construction or
effect and defeated if it is given another.'" In the scenario described, if the
plaintiff's claim inherently depends on proving violations of federal law (such
as mail or wire fraud), then federal question jurisdiction may exist even if
the complaint primarily alleges state law claims.
Substantial Federal Question
For federal question jurisdiction to exist, the federal issue must be
substantial, actually disputed, and capable of resolution in federal court
without disrupting the federal-state balance. Texas v. Clubcorp Holdings,
1:19-CV-00171-LY (W.D. Tex. Nov 05, 2019) notes: "'Instead, the question is,
does a state-law claim necessarily raise a stated federal issue, actually
disputed and substantial, which a federal forum may entertain without
disturbing any congressionally approved balance of federal and state judicial
responsibilities.'"
In the scenario described, the federal issues at stake (potential violations of
mail fraud, wire fraud, or RICO statutes) are substantial because they
involve serious federal crimes designed to protect against interstate
schemes to defraud. These issues are likely to be disputed by the
defendants, who would contest whether their actions actually violated these
federal statutes. And federal courts are the appropriate forum for resolving
these issues, as they involve federal statutes specifically designed to address
interstate fraud schemes.
Venue Considerations
If federal question jurisdiction is established, there may still be questions
about the proper venue for the lawsuit. The venue statute, 18 U.S.C. § 3237
Offenses Begun In One District and Completed In Another, 18 U.S.C. § 3237,
provides that "any offense against the United States begun in one district
and completed in another, or committed in more than one district, may be
inquired of and prosecuted in any district in which such offense was begun,
continued, or completed."

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
In the scenario described, the offense began in Oklahoma (where one
individual invited the other to devise the scheme), continued through
interstate communications between Oklahoma and Texas, and was
completed in Texas (where the false documents were submitted to the
courts). As such, venue would be proper in either the federal district court in
Oklahoma or the federal district court in Texas.
Exceptions and Caveats
Mere Presence of Federal Issue
It is important to note that the mere presence of a federal issue in a state
law claim does not automatically confer federal question jurisdiction. Texas
v. Clubcorp Holdings, 1:19-CV-00171-LY (W.D. Tex. Nov 05, 2019) cautions
that federal courts should not treat "'federal issue' as a password opening
federal courts to any state action embracing a point of federal law."
In the scenario described, if the complaint merely alleges state law claims
like fraud or forgery, and the federal issues are merely tangential or not
essential to the claims, then federal question jurisdiction may not exist. The
federal issue must be substantial and necessary to the resolution of the case.
Burden of Establishing Jurisdiction
The burden of establishing federal jurisdiction rests with the party seeking
to invoke it. Lai v. Guller, CASE NO. 3:18-CV-1121-B-BK (N.D. Tex. Nov 07,
2018) notes: "'[T]he burden of establishing federal jurisdiction rests on the
party seeking the federal forum.'"
In the scenario described, the plaintiff would bear the burden of
demonstrating that their claims arise under federal law or otherwise satisfy
the requirements for federal jurisdiction. This would require careful
pleading and potentially the gathering of evidence to show that the
defendants' actions violated federal mail fraud, wire fraud, or RICO statutes.
Alternative Basis for Federal Jurisdiction: Diversity
While the question specifically asks about federal question jurisdiction, it is
worth noting that there may be an alternative basis for federal jurisdiction:
diversity of citizenship. Moye v. Creighton, No. 3:17-cv-01984-HZ (D. Or. Feb
01, 2018) states: "For jurisdiction to exist by reason of diversity, the matter
in controversy must exceed the sum or value of $75,000, and the action
must be between citizens of different states."
In the scenario described, the individuals are from different states
(Oklahoma and Texas), and the matter in controversy involves a home, which
likely exceeds $75,000 in value. As such, even if federal question jurisdiction
does not exist, the plaintiff may still be able to bring their case in federal
court based on diversity jurisdiction.

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Conclusion
Based on the analysis above, the actions described in the scenario likely do
raise a federal question, allowing the case to be sued in federal court. The
cross-state nature of the fraudulent scheme, involving individuals from
Oklahoma and Texas conspiring to submit false documents to Texas courts to
deprive someone of their home, potentially violates federal mail fraud (18
U.S.C. § 1341) and/or wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343) statutes if the false
documents or communications about the scheme were transmitted across
state lines.
Furthermore, if the submission of false documents was part of a pattern of
racketeering activity that affected interstate commerce, the victim could
potentially bring a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1964, which explicitly
provides for federal court jurisdiction.
For federal question jurisdiction to exist, the plaintiff would need to
explicitly allege violations of these federal statutes in their well-pleaded
complaint, or their state law claims would need to necessarily raise
substantial federal issues. The burden would be on the plaintiff to establish
that their claims arise under federal law.
Even if federal question jurisdiction does not exist, the plaintiff may still be
able to bring their case in federal court based on diversity jurisdiction, given
that the parties are from different states and the value of the home likely
exceeds $75,000.
In conclusion, the scenario described presents multiple potential bases for
federal court jurisdiction, with federal question jurisdiction being a viable
option if the plaintiff can successfully allege and prove violations of federal
mail fraud, wire fraud, or RICO statutes.
Legal Authorities
Haulmark Servs., Inc. v. Solid Grp. Trucking, Inc., CIVIL ACTION H-14-0568
(S.D. Tex. Nov 05, 2014)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
A district court has original federal question jurisdiction over 'all civil
actions arising under the Constitution, laws or treaties of the United States.'
28 U.S.C. § 1331. Under the well-pleaded complaint rule, 'a federal court has
original or removal jurisdiction only if a federal question appears on the face
of the plaintiff's well-pleaded complaint' and 'generally there is no federal
jurisdiction if the plaintiff properly pleads only a state law cause of action.'

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
For a federal court to have jurisdiction, a federal question must appear on
the face of the plaintiff's well-pleaded complaint. This means that the case
must arise under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States. If
the complaint only involves state law causes of action, then federal
jurisdiction is generally not applicable.
Texas v. Clubcorp Holdings, 1:19-CV-00171-LY (W.D. Tex. Nov 05, 2019)
U.S. District Court — Western District of Texas
Extract
The Supreme Court has called this category of federal question cases
'special and small,' Empire Healthchoice Assurance, Inc. v. McVeigh, 547
U.S. 677 (2006), and directed that federal courts not treat ''federal issue' as
a password opening federal courts to any state action embracing a point of
federal law.' Grable, 545 U.S. at 314; see also Merrell Dow, 478 U.S. at 813
(holding that the 'mere presence of a federal issue in a state cause of action
does not automatically confer federal-question jurisdiction'). 'Instead, the
question is, does a state-law claim necessarily raise a stated federal issue,
actually disputed and substantial, which a federal forum may entertain
without disturbing any congressionally approved balance of federal and
state judicial responsibilities.' Grable, 125 S.Ct. at 2368.
Summary
The presence of a federal issue in a state cause of action does not
automatically confer federal-question jurisdiction. The passage emphasizes
that a state-law claim must necessarily raise a stated federal issue that is
actually disputed and substantial, and that a federal forum may entertain it
without disturbing the balance of federal and state judicial responsibilities.
This guidance is derived from Supreme Court rulings, making it broadly
applicable to questions of federal jurisdiction.
Phelps v. Dairyland Car Ins.
U.S. District Court — Northern District of California
Extract
Under federal law, district courts are of limited jurisdiction and only have
the power to adjudicate cases that have either “federal question
jurisdiction” or “diversity jurisdiction.” 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331, 1332(a). To have
federal question jurisdiction, the claimant must demonstrate that the cause
of action arises “under the Constitution, law, or treatises of the United
States.” 28 U.S.C. § 1331. ... These causes of action do not precisely arise

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
under federal law and are traditionally matters left to state court. The
pleadings fail to assert any federal question appropriately within this Court's
jurisdiction. 28 U.S.C. § 1331.
Summary
Causes of action that do not arise under federal law are traditionally left to
state courts. Therefore, if the actions in question do not involve a federal law
or constitutional issue, they may not raise a federal question.
Anderson v. Woodreal Estates 506 LLC, Civil Action 24-cv-1520 (W.D. La.
Nov 08, 2024)
U.S. District Court — Western District of Louisiana
Extract
Another common basis for jurisdiction in civil cases is federal question
jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331. The well-pleaded complaint rule
determines whether a federal claim is presented in the complaint sufficient
to give rise to subject-matter jurisdiction. 'Generally, under section 1331, a
suit arises under federal law if there appears on the face of the complaint
some substantial, disputed question of federal law.' Carpenter v. Wichita
Falls ISD, 44 F.3d 362, 366 (5th Cir. 1995). There is no federal jurisdiction if
the plaintiff pleads only state law causes of action. Gutierrez v. Flores, 543 F.
3d 248, 252 (5th Cir. 2008).
Summary
The passage explains that for a federal court to have jurisdiction under 28
U.S.C. § 1331, there must be a substantial, disputed question of federal law
presented in the complaint. If the complaint only involves state law causes of
action, federal jurisdiction does not exist. This is relevant to determining
whether the actions described in the question could be brought in federal
court based on a federal question.
Moye v. Creighton, No. 3:17-cv-01984-HZ (D. Or. Jan 19, 2018)
U.S. District Court — District of Oregon
Extract
Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction. Exxon Mobil Corp. v.
Allapattah Servs., Inc., 545 U.S. 546, 552 (2005). Federal jurisdiction may be
based on the presence of a federal question or on diversity of citizenship. 28
U.S.C. §§ 1331, 1332. Federal question jurisdiction may exist where a claim
involves the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States. 28 U.S.C. §
1331. For jurisdiction to exist by reason of diversity, the matter in

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
controversy must exceed the sum or value of $75,000, and the action must
be between citizens of different states.28 U.S.C. § 1332(a). The court must
dismiss an action where it lacks subject matter jurisdiction. Fed. R. Civ. P.
12(h)(3).
Summary
The passage explains the basis for federal jurisdiction, which can be either a
federal question or diversity of citizenship. A federal question involves
claims related to the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States. In
the scenario described, the actions of submitting false documents to a state
court do not inherently involve a federal question unless they violate a
specific federal law or constitutional right. The passage also notes that for
diversity jurisdiction, the matter must exceed $75,000 and involve citizens of
different states. However, the passage does not provide information on
whether the described actions meet these criteria.
Lai v. Guller, CASE NO. 3:18-CV-1121-B-BK (N.D. Tex. Nov 07, 2018)
U.S. District Court — Northern District of Texas
Extract
A federal district court has subject matter jurisdiction over both (1) a federal
claim arising under the Constitution, federal law, or a treaty, see 28 U.S.C. §
1331, and (2) a case where there is complete diversity of citizenship
between the parties and the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000.00, see
28 U.S.C. § 1332. '[A] federal court has original or removal jurisdiction only
if a federal question appears on the face of the plaintiff's well-pleaded
complaint.' Gutierrez v. Flores, 543 F.3d 248, 251-52 (5th Cir. 2008) (internal
quotation marks omitted). Moreover, 'the burden of establishing federal
jurisdiction rests on the party seeking the federal forum.' Howery v. Allstate
Ins. Co., 243 F.3d 912, 916 (5th Cir. 2001).
Summary
Criteria for federal jurisdiction, which includes federal claims arising under
the Constitution, federal law, or treaties, and cases with complete diversity
of citizenship and an amount in controversy exceeding $75,000. It also
emphasizes that a federal question must appear on the face of the plaintiff's
well-pleaded complaint, and the burden of establishing federal jurisdiction
lies with the party seeking the federal forum. This information is generally
applicable to cases involving federal jurisdiction.
Moye v. Creighton, No. 3:17-cv-01984-HZ (D. Or. Feb 01, 2018)
U.S. District Court — District of Oregon

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Federal courts are courts of limited jurisdiction. Exxon Mobil Corp. v.
Allapattah Servs., Inc., 545 U.S. 546, 552 (2005). Federal jurisdiction may be
based on the presence of a federal question or on diversity of citizenship. 28
U.S.C. §§ 1331, 1332. Federal question jurisdiction may exist where a claim
involves the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States. 28 U.S.C. §
1331. For jurisdiction to exist by reason of diversity, the matter in
controversy must exceed the sum or value of $75,000, and the action must
be between citizens of different states. 28 U.S.C. § 1332(a).
Summary
The passage explains that federal courts have limited jurisdiction, which can
be based on either a federal question or diversity of citizenship. A federal
question involves claims related to the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the
United States. The passage also notes that for diversity jurisdiction, the
matter must exceed $75,000 and involve citizens of different states. The
passage suggests that claims of embezzlement, theft, fraud, conspiracy,
perjury, and forgery are typically state law claims unless they can be tied to
a specific federal statute or constitutional provision.
Green v. Davis, Civil Action 23-359-BAJ-EWD (M.D. La. May 30, 2023)
U.S. District Court — Middle District of Louisiana
Extract
Unlike state district courts, which are courts of general jurisdiction that may
hear all types of cases, federal courts may only entertain those cases over
which there is federal subject matter jurisdiction. Federal subject matter
jurisdiction may generally be established in two ways that are relevant to
this case. First, this Court has subject matter jurisdiction over “civil actions
arising under the Constitution, laws, or treatises of the United States.” []
This Court also has subject matter jurisdiction over civil actions where the
amount in controversy exceeds $75,000.00, exclusive of interest and costs,
and the parties are completely diverse (i.e., all plaintiffs are citizens of a
different state than all defendants). [] The burden of establishing federal
subject matter jurisdiction is on the party asserting it (here, Plaintiff). [] A
court may raise on its own at any time the issue of whether subject matter
jurisdiction exists.
Summary
Federal courts have limited jurisdiction and can only hear cases that involve
federal subject matter jurisdiction. This can be established if the case arises
under federal law or if there is diversity jurisdiction with an amount in
controversy exceeding $75,000. The passage also notes that the burden of
establishing this jurisdiction lies with the party asserting it. This is relevant

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
to the question as it provides insight into whether the actions described
could be brought to federal court.
Austin v. Ameriquest Mortg. Co., 510 F.Supp.2d 1218 (N.D. Ga. 2007)
U.S. District Court — Northern District of Georgia
Extract
A plaintiff who has only pled state law causes of action may be subject to
federal jurisdiction if (1) his/her state-law claims raise substantial federal
questions; or (2) federal law completely preempts his/her state-law claims.
Franchise Tax Bd. v. Constr. Laborers Vacation Trust, 463 U.S. 1, 13, 23, 103
S.Ct. 2841, 77 L.Ed.2d 420 (1983). A state law claim raises a substantial
federal question when federal law forms an essential element of plaintiff's
claim, and 'the federal right or immunity that forms the basis of the claim
must be such that the claim will be supported if the federal law is given one
construction or effect and defeated if it is given another.' Mobil Oil Corp. v.
Coastal Petroleum Co., 671 F.2d 419, 422 (11th Cir.1982) (internal citation
omitted). The mere fact that a court must apply or interpret federal law to
determine whether plaintiff is entitled to relief is not sufficient to confer
federal question jurisdiction. Rather, the federal issue must be substantial.
Summary
The passage provides insight into when a state law claim can raise a
substantial federal question, which is relevant to determining federal
jurisdiction. It explains that for a federal question to be substantial, federal
law must form an essential element of the claim, and the outcome must
depend on the interpretation of federal law. This is pertinent to the question
of whether the actions described could be brought in federal court.
Taylor v. Rockyou, Inc., No. 4:18-cv-00849-HEA (E.D. Mo. Aug 29, 2019)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Missouri
Extract
Federal question jurisdiction gives district courts 'original jurisdiction over
civil actions arising under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United
States.' Griffioen v. Cedar Rapids & Iowa City Ry. Co., 785 F.3d 1182, 1188
(8th Cir. 2015). See also 28 U.S.C. § 1331. Whether a claim arises under
federal law is determined by reference to the 'well-pleaded complaint.' Great
Lakes Gas Transmission Ltd. P'ship v. Essar Steel Minn. LLC, 843 F.3d 325,
329 (8th Cir. 2016). The well-pleaded complaint rule provides that
jurisdiction exists only when a federal question is presented on the face of a
plaintiff's properly pleaded complaint. Markham v. Wertin, 861 F.3d 748, 754
(8th Cir. 2017).

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage explains that federal question jurisdiction exists when a civil
action arises under the Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States. It
emphasizes the "well-pleaded complaint" rule, which requires that a federal
question be presented on the face of the complaint for jurisdiction to be
established. This is relevant to determining whether the actions described in
the question could be brought to federal court based on a federal question.
In re Bridgestone/Firestone Tires Products Liab., 203 F.Supp.2d 1032 (S.D.
Ind. 2002)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Indiana
Extract
The Eleventh Circuit found that the district court had federal question
jurisdiction over the case because: the case involves both (1) the necessity
for Plaintiffs to prove, as an essential element of their state law cause of
action, the existence of federal mail and wire fraud crimes as predicate acts,
which crimes would be enforceable in a federal civil RICO cause of action;
and (2) the fact that proof of the alleged federal mail and wire fraud crimes
involves a very substantial federal question [namely, whether the disclosure
duty of the Safety Act was violated].
Summary
Federal question jurisdiction can be established if a state law cause of action
requires proving federal crimes, such as mail and wire fraud, as essential
elements. These crimes can be enforceable in a federal civil RICO action,
which involves a substantial federal question. This suggests that if the
actions in question involve federal mail and wire fraud as part of a scheme
to submit false documents, it could potentially raise a federal question and
be actionable in federal court under RICO.
18 U.S.C. § 1343 18 U.S.C. § 1343 Fraud By Wire, Radio, Or Television
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be
transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication in
interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or
sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be fined
under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage from 18 U.S.C. § 1343 addresses schemes to defraud involving
the transmission of false or fraudulent information via wire, radio, or
television communication in interstate or foreign commerce. In the scenario
described, if the false documents were transmitted across state lines (from
Oklahoma to Texas) using such means, it could potentially raise a federal
question under this statute. The statute provides for federal jurisdiction over
such fraudulent schemes, which could allow for a lawsuit in federal court.
18 U.S.C. § 1341 18 U.S.C. § 1341 Frauds and Swindles
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises... for the purpose of executing such
scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, places in any post office or
authorized depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be
sent or delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited
any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or
commercial interstate carrier... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned
not more than 20 years, or both.
Summary
The passage from 18 U.S.C. § 1341 addresses schemes to defraud that
involve the use of mail or interstate carriers. If the individuals involved in
the scenario used mail or an interstate carrier to submit false documents to
the Texas courts, this could potentially raise a federal question under the
mail fraud statute. The statute provides for federal jurisdiction over such
fraudulent schemes, which could allow for a lawsuit in federal court.
18 U.S.C. § 3237 18 U.S.C. § 3237 Offenses Begun In One District and
Completed In Another
Extract
Except as otherwise expressly provided by enactment of Congress, any
offense against the United States begun in one district and completed in
another, or committed in more than one district, may be inquired of and
prosecuted in any district in which such offense was begun, continued, or
completed.

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 3237 provides for the prosecution of offenses that are begun in
one district and completed in another, or committed in more than one
district. This statute allows for such offenses to be prosecuted in any district
where the offense was begun, continued, or completed. This is relevant to
the question because the described actions involve activities across state
lines (Oklahoma and Texas), which could potentially be considered an
offense that began in one district and was completed in another.
18 U.S.C. § 1345 18 U.S.C. § 1345 Injunctions Against Fraud
Extract
If a person is-(A) violating or about to violate this chapter or section 287,
371 (insofar as such violation involves a conspiracy to defraud the United
States or any agency thereof), or 1001 of this title; ... the Attorney General
may commence a civil action in any Federal court to enjoin such violation.
Summary
If a person is violating or about to violate certain sections of the U.S. Code
related to fraud, the Attorney General has the authority to commence a civil
action in federal court to enjoin such violations. This suggests that if the
fraudulent actions in question involve a conspiracy to defraud the United
States or any agency thereof, it could potentially raise a federal question,
allowing for federal court jurisdiction.
18 U.S.C. § 1964 18 U.S.C. § 1964 Civil Remedies
Extract
Any person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and
the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee...
Summary
If a person is injured in their business or property due to a violation of
section 1962, they may sue in a U.S. district court. Section 1962 deals with
racketeering activities, which can include schemes involving fraud. If the
actions described in the question involve a pattern of racketeering activity,
such as submitting false documents to a court to deprive someone of their
property, it could potentially be considered a violation of section 1962.
Therefore, the injured party may have grounds to bring a lawsuit in federal
court under 18 U.S.C. § 1964.

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
18 U.S.C. § 1962 18 U.S.C. § 1962 Prohibited Activities
Extract
It shall be unlawful for any person through a pattern of racketeering activity
or through collection of an unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or
indirectly, any interest in or control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or
the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce.
Summary
The actions described in the question could potentially fall under the
category of racketeering activity if they involve a pattern of illegal conduct
aimed at acquiring or maintaining an interest in property through fraudulent
means. The passage specifically mentions that it is unlawful to engage in
such activities if they affect interstate commerce, which is relevant here as
the actions involve individuals from different states (Oklahoma and Texas).
This could raise a federal question under the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations (RICO) Act, allowing for a lawsuit in federal court.
Overview of the federal court system
Legal Secretary Federal Litigation - James Publishing - Pamela
Everett Nollkamper - 2023-05-01
Extract
There are four types of jurisdictions of the U.S. District Court: 1. Federal
question jurisdiction; 2. Diversity jurisdiction; 3. Exclusive jurisdiction; and
4. Pendent jurisdiction. Federal question jurisdiction involves disputes
arising under the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United States.
Exclusive federal jurisdiction means that only the federal court has the
power to hear the case. If the case involves an issue under federal law, the
district court must resolve the issue. State courts have exclusive jurisdiction
over issues involving state law issues. When both state and federal courts
have the power to hear a case, concurrent jurisdiction exists, then the
Plaintiff may initiate the lawsuit in either federal or state court.
Summary
Federal question jurisdiction involves disputes arising under the
Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States. For a case to be heard
in federal court under federal question jurisdiction, it must involve an issue
under federal law. The passage also explains that state courts have exclusive
jurisdiction over state law issues, and concurrent jurisdiction exists when
both state and federal courts can hear a case. In the scenario described, the
actions of submitting false documents to a state court to deprive someone of

=== PAGE 18 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
their home would likely be considered a state law issue, such as fraud or
forgery, unless there is a specific federal law that is implicated. Therefore, it
may not automatically raise a federal question unless a federal law is
involved.
Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy
The Brief - American Bar Association - 2024-01-01
Extract
Civil RICO can be utilized by institutions, corporations, banks, brokerage
firms, and a bevy of other individuals and associations as plaintiffs and by
defendants as counterclaims. The civil RICO cause of action is created by 18
U.S.C. § 1964(c), which provides: 'Any person injured in his business or
property by reason of a violation of section 1962 of this chapter may sue
therefor in any appropriate United States district court and shall recover
threefold the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including a
reasonable attorney’s fee . . . .' ... RICO’s broad definition of racketeering
activity and the act’s reference to mail and wire fraud as predicate offenses
begs the question: Why not RICO? That is, should the plaintiff consider
adding a RICO count to an existing state cause of action? Moreover, since an
action under RICO arises under federal law, a plaintiff can elect to have
access to federal court.
Summary
Civil RICO claims can be brought in federal court if the plaintiff can
demonstrate injury to business or property due to a violation of section
1962, which includes predicate offenses like mail and wire fraud. The
passage suggests that if the actions in question involve such predicate
offenses, a civil RICO claim could potentially be pursued in federal court.
H. Rept. 115-17 - Innocent Party Protection Act, 2017-02-24
Congressional Committee Reports
Extract
Congress has the authority to regulate the jurisdiction of the lower Federal
courts. As an exercise of that authority, the Innocent Party Protection Act
establishes a uniform standard for determining whether a defendant has
been fraudulently joined to a lawsuit in order to defeat Federal diversity
jurisdiction. It also makes clear that Federal courts may consider evidence
outside the pleadings when deciding a motion to remand a case that has
been removed to Federal court, as well as whether the plaintiff has shown a
good faith intent to pursue a judgment against a non-diverse defendant.

=== PAGE 19 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Regulation of jurisdiction in federal courts, particularly in cases of
fraudulent joinder to defeat federal diversity jurisdiction. It highlights that
federal courts can consider evidence outside the pleadings to determine if a
case should be remanded to state court. This is relevant to the question as it
involves the submission of false documents, which could be considered
fraudulent activity. The passage suggests that if the fraudulent activity
affects the jurisdictional facts, it could potentially raise a federal question,
especially if it involves diversity jurisdiction.
Defending RICO Claims In The Business Context Part III
Extract
In Part I of this series Defending RICO Claims in the Business Context, we
described why a plan to defend against potential claims under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), 18 U.S.C. &#39; 1961-68,
should be in every business&#39;s toolkit. In Part II, we explained that one
of the best tools businesses have in that toolkit is moving to dismiss a RICO
claim early because the plaintiff failed to allege that his purported injuries
are sufficient to convey what is known as &#34;RICO standing.&#34; Both
of these parts specifically addressed the federal RICO laws. However,
because many states have their own versions of these laws, which are often
called &#34;Little RICO Acts,&#34; businesses should also be aware of the
potential risks of liability under analogous RICO laws in the states where
they operate. More than half of states have adopted their own RICO laws,
often modeled after the federal RICO counterpart. Although these
states&#39; laws are sometimes found in criminal codes, many states also
allow civil RICO claims. In these states, plaintiffs may be permitted to plead
state civil RICO violations in addition to federal RICO violations, even in
federal court. While federal case law under RICO is usually instructive in
how to interpret these parallel state provisions, businesses should be aware
that each state may have nuances that differ from federal RICO laws.
Summary
Federal RICO laws can be applied in federal court, and state RICO laws can
sometimes be pleaded in federal court as well. This suggests that if the
actions in question fall under RICO violations, they could potentially raise a
federal question and be addressed in federal court. The passage also
highlights that many states have their own RICO laws, which can be
analogous to federal RICO laws, and these can sometimes be pleaded in
federal court.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of June 06, 2025. View full answer on vLex

