FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-Based-on-the-above--Defendants-Myers-and-Branthoover-have-committed-multiple-RICO-predicate-acts-wir-1.pdf
PAGES: 27
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
Based on the above, Defendants Myers and Branthoover have committed
multiple RICO predicate acts—wire fraud, interstate travel in aid of
racketeering, and perjury—forming a pattern of racketeering activity. Their
conduct constitutes violations of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d) (substantive and
conspiracy RICO), and Plaintiff has standing to bring a civil RICO claim for
injury to business and property.
Answer (U.S. Federal)
Short response
The predicate acts of wire fraud, interstate travel in aid of racketeering, and
perjury alleged against Defendants Myers and Branthoover can establish a
pattern of racketeering activity sufficient to constitute violations of both
substantive and conspiracy RICO provisions under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and
(d). If Plaintiff can demonstrate injury to business or property caused by
these violations, they would have standing to bring a civil RICO claim under 
18 U.S.C. § 1964(c).
Summary
To establish violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO) under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d), a plaintiff must
demonstrate that the defendants conducted or participated in an
enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity, which requires
at least two predicate acts of racketeering occurring within a ten-year
period. The alleged predicate acts of wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343),
interstate travel in aid of racketeering (18 U.S.C. § 1952), and perjury all
qualify as racketeering activity under 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1). Furthermore,
these predicate acts must be related and demonstrate continuity to form a
pattern of racketeering activity as required by RICO jurisprudence.
For the plaintiff to have standing to bring a civil RICO claim, they must have
been injured in their business or property "by reason of" the RICO
violations. Under 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c), any person who suffers such injury has
standing to sue and may recover treble damages, costs, and attorney's fees.
Given the alleged predicate acts and assuming they can be proven to have
caused injury to the plaintiff's business or property, the plaintiff would have
standing to pursue civil RICO claims against Defendants Myers and
Branthoover for violations of both the substantive RICO provision (§ 1962(c))
and the conspiracy provision (§ 1962(d)).

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Background and Relevant Law
Statutory Framework
RICO was designed as a flexible tool to combat organized crime but has
been interpreted broadly to apply beyond traditional organized crime
activities. The statute provides both criminal penalties and civil remedies for
violations of its substantive provisions.
Definition of Racketeering Activity
Under 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1), "racketeering activity" is broadly defined to
include numerous federal and state crimes. Relevant to the current analysis,
the statute specifically identifies wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343) and interstate
travel in aid of racketeering (18 U.S.C. § 1952) as predicate acts:
"'[R]acketeering activity' means... (B) any act which is indictable under any
of the following provisions of title 18, United States Code: ... section 1343
(relating to wire fraud), ... section 1952 (relating to racketeering)..." 18
U.S.C. § 1961
Pattern of Racketeering Activity
The statute also defines what constitutes a "pattern of racketeering activity":
"'[P]attern of racketeering activity' requires at least two acts of racketeering
activity, one of which occurred after the effective date of this chapter and
the last of which occurred within ten years (excluding any period of
imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act of racketeering activity." 
18 U.S.C. § 1961(5)
Prohibited Activities
The relevant prohibited activities are set forth in 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d):
"It shall be unlawful for any person employed by or associated with any
enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of
such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity or
collection of unlawful debt." 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c)
"It shall be unlawful for any person to conspire to violate any of the
provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section." 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d)
Civil Remedies
Civil remedies for RICO violations are provided in 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c):
"Any person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and
the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee..." 18 U.S.C. §
1964(c)
Case Law Interpretation of RICO Elements
Elements of a Civil RICO Claim
Courts have consistently outlined the elements required to establish a RICO
violation. The U.S. Supreme Court in H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell
Telephone Company, 492 U.S. 229, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989)
explained that RICO "renders criminally and civilly liable 'any person' who
uses or invests income derived 'from a pattern of racketeering activity' to
acquire an interest in or to operate an enterprise engaged in interstate
commerce, § 1962(a); who acquires or maintains an interest in or control of
such an enterprise 'through a pattern of racketeering activity,' § 1962(b);
who, being employed by or associated with such an enterprise, conducts or
participates in the conduct of its affairs 'through a pattern of racketeering
activity,' § 1962(c); or, finally, who conspires to violate the first three
subsections of § 1962, § 1962(d)."
More recently, in Holcomb v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (W.D.N.C. Feb. 8, 2024), the
court summarized the elements of a RICO claim under § 1962(c) as: "(1) the
conducting; (2) of an enterprise; (3) through a pattern; (4) of racketeering
activity."
Similarly, Studco Bldg. Sys. U.S., LLC v. 1st Advantage Fed. Credit Union,
509 F.Supp.3d 560 (E.D. Va. 2020) articulated that "the elements of a civil 
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) claim are (1) a
person, (2) an enterprise, (3) a pattern of (4) racketeering activity (5) which
causes injury to the plaintiff."
Pattern of Racketeering Activity
The Supreme Court in H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Co., 492 U.S.
229, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989) established that a "pattern of
racketeering activity" requires a showing that "the racketeering predicates
are related, and that they amount to or pose a threat of continued criminal
activity."
The Ninth Circuit in Ticor Title Ins. Co. v. Florida, 937 F.2d 447 (9th Cir.
1991) elaborated that the "relationship requirement is satisfied by a showing
that the racketeering predicates 'have the same or similar purposes, results,
participants, victims, or methods of commission, or otherwise are
interrelated by distinguishing characteristics and are not isolated events.'"
Predicate Acts
Courts have recognized wire fraud and interstate travel in aid of
racketeering as predicate acts under RICO. In Chambers v. King Buick GMC,
LLC, 43 F. Supp. 3d 575 (D. Md. 2014), the court noted that "racketeering

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
activity is defined under 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1), as 'any act which is indictable'
under a number of enumerated criminal provisions, which include violations
of 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341 (mail fraud), 1343 (wire fraud), and 2314 (interstate
transport of money converted or fraudulently obtained)."
U.S. v. International Longshoremen's Ass'n, 518 F.Supp.2d 422 (E.D. N.Y.
2007) further explained that "a substantial number of the predicate acts
alleged in the Amended Complaint are asserted to be violations of the
federal mail and wire fraud statutes, 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343. As the Second
Circuit has repeatedly recognized, '[t]he essential elements of a mail [or
wire] fraud violation are (1) a scheme to defraud, (2) money or property [as
the object of the scheme], and (3) use of the mails [or wires] to further the
scheme.'"
Standing for Civil RICO Claims
The standing requirements for civil RICO claims are addressed in D'Addario
v. Geller, 264 F.Supp.2d 367 (E.D. Va. 2003), which stated that a plaintiff
must allege "(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of
racketeering activity" and additionally show that "(5) he was injured in his
business or property (6) by reason of the RICO violation. These two
additional elements are viewed as standing requirements... both but-for and
legal cause must be shown."
American Chiropractic v. Trigon Healthcare, 367 F.3d 212 (4th Cir. 2004)
confirmed that "any person injured in his business or property by reason of a
violation of section 1962 of this chapter may sue... and shall recover
threefold the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including a
reasonable attorney's fee."
Secondary Materials
Secondary sources provide additional insight into RICO's interpretation.
According to Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy (2024), "To establish a § 1962(c)
RICO claim, the following elements must be proven: • Enterprise: A
structured group of individuals associated for a common purpose. • Pattern
of racketeering activity: At least two acts of racketeering, as specified within
the statute, within 10 years. • Conduct: Directly or indirectly conducting the
enterprise's affairs through racketeering. • Injury: An injury to business or
property due to the racketeering activity."
RICO: A Primer (2022) notes that "RICO provides for a civil action against
persons engaged in a 'pattern of racketeering activity'... Among other
things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is indictable under' a
list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an expansive range of
violations, for example, violations of... 18 U.S.C. ' 1343 (wire fraud);... 18
U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act)."

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Analysis
Predicate Acts
The first step in analyzing whether Defendants Myers and Branthoover have
violated RICO is to determine if they have committed predicate acts that
qualify as "racketeering activity" under the statute.
Wire Fraud
Wire fraud is explicitly listed as a predicate act under 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1)(B).
As explained in U.S. v. International Longshoremen's Ass'n, 518 F.Supp.2d
422 (E.D. N.Y. 2007), the essential elements of wire fraud are "(1) a scheme
to defraud, (2) money or property [as the object of the scheme], and (3) use
of the mails [or wires] to further the scheme."
If the defendants used electronic communications, such as emails, phone
calls, or other electronic transmissions, to further a fraudulent scheme with
the intent to obtain money or property, these acts would constitute wire
fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343, and thus qualify as predicate acts under RICO.
Interstate Travel in Aid of Racketeering
Interstate travel in aid of racketeering, criminalized under 18 U.S.C. § 1952,
is also explicitly listed as a predicate act under 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1)(B).
According to RICO: A Primer (2022), violations of "18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel
Act)" are included in the "expansive range of violations" that constitute
racketeering activities.
If Defendants Myers and Branthoover traveled across state lines or used
interstate facilities with intent to promote, manage, establish, or carry on an
unlawful activity, these actions would qualify as predicate acts under RICO.
Perjury
While not directly mentioned in the cited materials as a predicate act, if the
perjury committed by Defendants Myers and Branthoover relates to
obstruction of justice, it may qualify as a predicate act. D'Addario v. Geller,
264 F.Supp.2d 367 (E.D. Va. 2003) notes that "racketeering must involve the
commission of two or more predicate acts, including mail fraud and
obstruction of justice."
Pattern of Racketeering Activity
Having established that the defendants' alleged acts qualify as predicate
acts under RICO, the next step is to determine whether these acts form a
"pattern of racketeering activity."

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Two or More Predicate Acts
Under 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5), a "pattern of racketeering activity" requires at
least two acts of racketeering activity within a ten-year period. As stated in 
Chambers v. King Buick GMC, LLC, 43 F. Supp. 3d 575 (D. Md. 2014), to
show a pattern of racketeering activity, a plaintiff must "adequately plead at
least two predicate acts of racketeering activity."
The proposition indicates that Defendants Myers and Branthoover have
committed "multiple RICO predicate acts," including wire fraud, interstate
travel in aid of racketeering, and potentially perjury. If at least two of these
acts occurred within the statutory timeframe, the numerical requirement for
a pattern would be satisfied.
Relatedness and Continuity
However, the mere commission of two predicate acts within ten years is not
sufficient to establish a pattern. As clarified by the Supreme Court in H.J.
Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Co., 492 U.S. 229, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106
L.Ed.2d 195 (1989) and reiterated in Ticor Title Ins. Co. v. Florida, 937 F.2d
447 (9th Cir. 1991), the predicate acts must be "related" and "amount to or
pose a threat of continued criminal activity."
The relationship requirement is satisfied when the predicate acts "have the
same or similar purposes, results, participants, victims, or methods of
commission, or otherwise are interrelated by distinguishing characteristics
and are not isolated events." If the defendants' alleged wire fraud, interstate
travel in aid of racketeering, and perjury were all committed as part of a
common scheme or plan, with similar purposes or targets, they would likely
satisfy the relatedness requirement.
Continuity can be shown through either "a closed-ended conspiracy" (a
series of related predicate acts extending over a substantial period) or an
"open-ended conspiracy" (past conduct that by its nature projects into the
future with a threat of repetition). As noted in RACKETEER INFLUENCED
AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS (2021), "A plaintiff can satisfy RICO's
pattern requirement two ways: by alleging a long-running series of
interrelated predicate acts constituting a closed-ended conspiracy; or by
alleging at least two interrelated predicate acts and the distinct threat of
continued racketeering activities, demonstrating an open-ended conspiracy."
If the defendants' predicate acts occurred over a significant time period or
demonstrate a threat of continuing criminal activity, the continuity
requirement would be satisfied.
Enterprise
A RICO violation under § 1962(c) requires that the defendants conducted or
participated in an "enterprise" through a pattern of racketeering activity.
The Supreme Court in Boyle v. United States, 129 S.Ct. 2237, 173 L.Ed.2d
1265, 556 U.S. 938, 77 USLW 4474 (2009) addressed the enterprise
requirement, noting that RICO makes it "unlawful for any person employed

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or
indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity."
Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy (2024) defines an enterprise as "A structured
group of individuals associated for a common purpose." If Defendants Myers
and Branthoover were associated with such a group engaged in or affecting
interstate commerce, and conducted its affairs through their pattern of
racketeering activity, the enterprise requirement would be satisfied.
Violations of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d)
Based on the analysis above, if Defendants Myers and Branthoover (1) were
associated with an enterprise affecting interstate commerce, (2) conducted
or participated in the enterprise's affairs (3) through a pattern of
racketeering activity consisting of related and continuous predicate acts,
they would have violated 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c).
Furthermore, 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d) makes it unlawful to conspire to violate
subsections (a), (b), or (c) of § 1962. As noted in Holcomb v. Nissan N. Am.,
Inc. (W.D.N.C. Feb. 8, 2024), to plead a conspiracy violation under § 1962(d),
a plaintiff must allege that "each defendant agreed that another
coconspirator would commit two or more acts of racketeering."
If the defendants agreed between themselves or with others to participate in
the enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity, they would
also have violated the conspiracy provision of § 1962(d).
Plaintiff's Standing
Finally, to bring a civil RICO claim, the plaintiff must have standing, which
requires showing injury to business or property caused by the RICO
violations.
Injury to Business or Property
Under 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c), "Any person injured in his business or property
by reason of a violation of section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in
any appropriate United States district court."
Studco Bldg. Sys. U.S., LLC v. 1st Advantage Fed. Credit Union, 509 F.Supp.
3d 560 (E.D. Va. 2020) notes that "The injury and causation components [of
element (5)] are viewed as standing requirements."
If the plaintiff can demonstrate that they suffered concrete financial harm to
their business interests or property as a result of the defendants' RICO
violations, they would satisfy the injury requirement for standing.

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Causation
In addition to showing injury, the plaintiff must establish that their injury
was caused "by reason of" the RICO violation. D'Addario v. Geller, 264
F.Supp.2d 367 (E.D. Va. 2003) clarifies that "both but-for and legal cause
must be shown."
If the plaintiff can demonstrate that their injury would not have occurred but
for the defendants' RICO violations, and that there is a direct relationship
between the defendants' racketeering activities and the harm suffered, the
causation requirement would be satisfied.
Exceptions and Caveats
Specificity in Pleading
It's important to note that RICO claims, particularly those based on wire
fraud, are subject to heightened pleading standards. Civil Rico: A Tool of
Advocacy (2024) points out that "RICO claims based on mail or wire fraud
must comport with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 9(b)'s requirement that
allegations involving fraud be pleaded with particularity."
To successfully pursue a RICO claim based on wire fraud, the plaintiff would
need to plead the specific circumstances constituting fraud, including the
time, place, and content of the fraudulent representations, the identity of the
person making the misrepresentation, and what was obtained or given up as
a consequence.
Standing Requirements in Circuit Split
There is a circuit split regarding standing requirements for RICO conspiracy
claims. According to Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
(1999), "the circuits are divided as to whether the conspiratorial act which
results in an injury and provides the basis for a civil claim must be
specifically codified as a RICO predicate act, or whether any overt act in
furtherance of a conspiracy to violate RICO is sufficient for standing."
Depending on the circuit in which the case is brought, the plaintiff may need
to show that their injury resulted from a specific predicate act, rather than
merely from an overt act in furtherance of a RICO conspiracy.
Conclusion
Based on the analysis of the provided materials, if Defendants Myers and
Branthoover committed the predicate acts of wire fraud, interstate travel in
aid of racketeering, and perjury as alleged, and if these acts form a pattern
of racketeering activity by being related and continuous, their conduct
would constitute violations of both 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) (substantive RICO)
and § 1962(d) (conspiracy RICO).

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Furthermore, if the plaintiff can demonstrate that they suffered injury to
their business or property that was caused by these RICO violations, they
would have standing to bring a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c).
The RICO statute provides a powerful tool for plaintiffs who have been
harmed by patterns of criminal activity affecting their business or property
interests. As P & P MARKETING, INC. v. Ditton, 746 F. Supp. 1354 (N.D. Ill.
1990) notes, civil actions for RICO violations are authorized by § 1964(c),
which allows for recovery of "treble damages and costs including attorney's
fees."
However, successfully pursuing a RICO claim requires careful pleading and
substantial evidence to establish each element of the violation and the
plaintiff's standing. The plaintiff must be prepared to demonstrate not only
the commission of predicate acts but also their relationship and continuity,
the existence and nature of the enterprise, and the causal connection
between the RICO violations and the plaintiff's injuries.
Given the complexity of RICO litigation, the outcome will depend heavily on
the specific facts of the case and the ability to meet the heightened pleading
standards associated with RICO claims, particularly those based on
predicate acts of fraud. Nevertheless, if all elements can be proven, the
plaintiff would be entitled to pursue their civil RICO claim against
Defendants Myers and Branthoover.
Legal Authorities
Boyle v. United States, 129 S.Ct. 2237, 173 L.Ed.2d 1265, 556 U.S. 938, 77
USLW 4474 (2009)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
RICO makes it 'unlawful for any person employed by or associated with any
enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of
such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C.
§ 1962(c) (emphasis added). ... Given that it is also unlawful to conspire to
violate § 1962(c), see § 1962(d), this comment provides no assurance that
RICO and § 371 offenses remain distinct.
Summary
Under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), it is unlawful for individuals associated with an
enterprise to conduct its affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity.
Additionally, § 1962(d) makes it unlawful to conspire to violate § 1962(c).
This supports the proposition that Myers and Branthoover's alleged actions
could constitute violations of these sections if they engaged in a pattern of
racketeering activity as part of an enterprise. The passage also highlights

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
the distinct nature of RICO offenses compared to other criminal
conspiracies, reinforcing the applicability of RICO in this context.
P &amp; P MARKETING, INC. v. Ditton, 746 F. Supp. 1354 (N.D. Ill. 1990)
U.S. District Court — Northern District of Illinois
Extract
Civil actions for RICO violations are authorized by Section 1964(c) which
provides that 'any person injured in his business or property by reason of a
violation of Section 1962' may recover treble damages and costs including
attorney's fees. 18 USC § 1964(c)... Regardless of which subsection of
Section 1962 defendants are alleged to have violated, five elements are
common and necessary to every civil RICO claim. These essential elements
are: (1) a 'person'; (2) an 'enterprise' engaged in or affecting interstate
commerce; (3) 'racketeering activity' which (4) occurred in a 'pattern' and
(5) an injury... Defendants contend that plaintiff has failed to sufficiently
plead the necessary predicate acts of 'racketeering activity' and (2) have
failed to allege facts sufficient to demonstrate a 'pattern of racketeering
activity'... Defendants contend plaintiff failed to adequately allege a pattern
of racketeering activity. As a necessary element of any civil RICO claim, a
plaintiff must allege a 'pattern of racketeering activity'. See 18 USC §
1962(a)-(d)... Applying the factors listed in Morgan to the facts of this case,
the court finds plaintiff's allegations sufficient to meet the continuity
element of the pattern requirement... Plaintiff has adequately alleged facts
in support of a 'pattern of racketeering injury'.
Summary
Framework for understanding how to establish a RICO claim, which
supports the proposition that Defendants Myers and Branthoover's alleged
actions could constitute RICO violations if they meet these elements.
Inc v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, 492 U.S. 229, 109 S.Ct. 2893,
106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), 18 U.S.C.
§§ 1961-1968, which is Title IX of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970
(OCCA), imposes criminal and civil liability upon persons who engage in
certain 'prohibited activities,' each of which is defined to include, as a
necessary element, proof of a 'pattern of racketeering activity,' § 1962.
'Racketeering activity' means 'any act or threat involving' specified state-law
crimes, any 'act' indictable under specified federal statutes, and certain

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
federal 'offenses.' § 1961(1). A 'pattern' requires 'at least two acts of
racketeering activity' within a 10-year period. § 1961(5). ... RICO renders
criminally and civilly liable 'any person' who uses or invests income derived
'from a pattern of racketeering activity' to acquire an interest in or to
operate an enterprise engaged in interstate commerce, § 1962(a); who
acquires or maintains an interest in or control of such an enterprise 'through
a pattern of racketeering activity,' § 1962(b); who, being employed by or
associated with such an enterprise, conducts or participates in the conduct
of its affairs 'through a pattern of racketeering activity,' § 1962(c); or, finally,
who conspires to violate the first three subsections of § 1962, § 1962(d).
Summary
Requirements for establishing a RICO violation, including the need for a
"pattern of racketeering activity," which involves at least two acts of
racketeering within a 10-year period. It also clarifies that RICO applies to
any person involved in such activities, whether through direct participation
or conspiracy. This supports the proposition that Defendants Myers and
Branthoover's alleged actions could constitute RICO violations if they meet
these criteria.
Sedima v. Imrex Company, Inc, 473 U.S. 479, 105 S.Ct. 3275, 87 L.Ed.2d 346
(1985)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), 18 U.S.C.
§§ 1961-1968, which is directed at 'racketeering activity'—defined in §
1961(1) to encompass, inter alia, acts 'indictable' under specific federal
criminal provisions, including mail and wire fraud—provides in § 1964(c) for
a private civil action to recover treble damages by any person injured in his
business or property 'by reason of a violation of section 1962.' Section
1962(c) prohibits conducting or participating in the conduct of an enterprise
'through a pattern of racketeering activity.'
Summary
The passage explains that RICO allows for a private civil action for treble
damages if a person is injured in their business or property due to a
violation of section 1962. Section 1962(c) specifically prohibits conducting
an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, which includes acts
like wire fraud. This directly supports the proposition that if Defendants
Myers and Branthoover committed wire fraud and other predicate acts as
part of a pattern of racketeering activity, they could be liable under RICO,
and the plaintiff would have standing to bring a civil RICO claim.

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex Co., Inc., 741 F.2d 482 (2nd Cir. 1984)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Second Circuit
Extract
Two of the RICO counts allege that the fraudulent purchase orders, invoices
and credit memoranda constitute a pattern of racketeering activity, the
predicate acts being separate and numerous violations of the Mail Fraud
Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1341 (1982) and the Wire Fraud Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1343
(1982). The third count charges a RICO conspiracy under 18 U.S.C. Sec.
1962(c) and (d). ... Section 1964(c) states that anyone 'injured' 'by reason of'
a violation of section 1962 is entitled to treble damages. Section 1962
'violations' include conducting 'enterprises' 'through a pattern of
racketeering'; a 'pattern of racketeering' is defined by section 1961(5) as
two or more 'acts of racketeering' occurring within a given time. 'Acts of
racketeering' are defined by section 1961(1), inter alia, as any of a number
of acts 'chargeable under State law,' acts 'indictable' under a variety of
federal laws, or an 'offense' under the federal securities law.
Summary
Elements required to establish a RICO claim, including the need for a
pattern of racketeering activity, which can be constituted by acts of wire
fraud, among others. It also clarifies that a plaintiff can bring a civil RICO
claim if they are injured by a violation of section 1962, which includes
conducting enterprises through a pattern of racketeering. This directly
supports the proposition that Defendants Myers and Branthoover's alleged
actions could constitute RICO violations if they involve multiple predicate
acts like wire fraud and perjury.
Holcomb v. Nissan N. Am., Inc.
U.S. District Court — Western District of North Carolina
Extract
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act 'creates civil
liability for those who engage in a pattern of racketeering activity.' GE
Investment Private Placement Partners II v. Parker, 247 F.3d 543, 548 (4th
Cir. 2011). Under 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c), 'RICO contains a private right of
action for ‘[a]ny person injured in his business or property by reason of a
violation of section 1962 of this chapter.' Chubirko v. Better Bus. Bureau of
S. Piedmont, Inc., 763 F.Supp.2d 759, 766 (W.D. N.C. 2011). ... The elements
of a RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) are: (1) the conducting; (2) of an
enterprise; (3) through a pattern; (4) of racketeering activity. ... A 'pattern of
racketeering activity' is defined as at least two acts of racketeering, typically
referred to as predicate acts. See 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5). To plead a conspiracy
violation under § 1962(d), a plaintiff must allege that 'each defendant agreed
that another coconspirator would commit two or more acts of racketeering.'

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Clear explanation of the elements required to establish a RICO claim under
18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d). It specifies that a pattern of racketeering
activity involves at least two predicate acts, which aligns with the
proposition that Defendants Myers and Branthoover committed multiple
predicate acts. Additionally, the passage confirms that a private right of
action exists for individuals injured in their business or property due to a
RICO violation, supporting the plaintiff's standing to bring a civil RICO
claim.
Nutrition Distribution LLC v. Custom Nutraceuticals LLC, 194 F.Supp.3d 952
(D. Ariz. 2016)
U.S. District Court — District of Arizona
Extract
RICO makes it unlawful for 'any person employed by or associated with any
enterprise engaged in...interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or
participate...in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). 'Racketeering activity' includes
any of several listed crimes 'which is chargeable under State law and
punishable by imprisonment for more than one year,' as well as any act
chargeable under one of several enumerated federal statutes. § 1961(1). A
'pattern of racketeering activity' requires at least two acts of racketeering
activity, § 1961(5), which must be 'related' and 'amount to or pose a threat of
continued criminal activity.'
Summary
Clear explanation of what constitutes a RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. §
1962(c), including the requirement of a "pattern of racketeering activity"
which involves at least two predicate acts. It also specifies that these acts
must be related and pose a threat of continued criminal activity. This
directly supports the proposition that Defendants Myers and Branthoover's
alleged actions could constitute a RICO violation if they meet these criteria.
Arizona Premium Finance, Inc. v. Bielli, 77 F.Supp.2d 341 (E.D. N.Y. 1999)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
To state a claim for damages under RICO a plaintiff has two pleading
burdens. First, he must allege that the defendant has violated the
substantive RICO statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1962 (1976), commonly known as
'criminal RICO.' In so doing, he must allege the existence of seven

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
constituent elements: (1) that the defendant (2) through the commission of
two or more acts (3) constituting a 'pattern' (4) of 'racketeering activity' (5)
directly or indirectly invests in, or maintains an interest in, or participates in
(6) an 'enterprise' (7) the activities of which affect interstate or foreign
commerce.... Plaintiff must allege adequately defendant's violation of section
1962 before turning to the second burden — i.e., invoking RICO's civil
remedies of treble damages, attorneys fees and costs.... To establish such a
pattern of racketeering activity, 'a plaintiff must plead at least two predicate
acts, show that the acts are related and that they amount to, or pose a
threat of, continuing criminal activity.' H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell
Telephone Co., 492 U.S. 229, 239, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989).
RICO is aimed at 'racketeering activity,' which the statute defines, in
relevant part, as certain acts indictable under Federal law, including mail
and wire fraud, and violations of the Hobbs Act. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1)(B).
Summary
Elements required to establish a RICO claim, which include the commission
of two or more predicate acts that form a pattern of racketeering activity. It
specifies that these acts must be related and pose a threat of continued
criminal activity. The passage also identifies wire fraud as a type of
racketeering activity under RICO. This directly supports the proposition that
Defendants Myers and Branthoover's alleged actions, including wire fraud,
could constitute a pattern of racketeering activity under RICO.
Chambers v. King Buick GMC, LLC, 43 F. Supp. 3d 575 (D. Md. 2014)
U.S. District Court — District of Maryland
Extract
To show a “pattern of racketeering activity,” a plaintiff must “adequately
plead at least two predicate acts of racketeering activity [.]” Am.
Chiropractic Assoc., Inc. v. Trigon Healthcare, Inc., 367 F.3d 212, 233 (4th
Cir.2004) (citing 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5) ). Racketeering activity is defined under
18 U.S.C. § 1961(1), as “any act which is indictable” under a number of
enumerated criminal provisions, which include violations of 18 U.S.C. §§
1341 (mail fraud), 1343 (wire fraud), and 2314 (interstate transport of
money converted or fraudulently obtained). Plaintiff cites these three
sections as Defendants' predicate acts.
Summary
Requirement for a plaintiff to plead at least two predicate acts of
racketeering activity to establish a pattern of racketeering under RICO. It
also specifies that wire fraud and interstate transport of money fraudulently
obtained are considered racketeering activities under 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1).
This directly supports the proposition that Defendants Myers and
Branthoover's alleged acts of wire fraud and interstate travel in aid of
racketeering could constitute a pattern of racketeering activity under RICO.

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Gutierrez v. Givens, 1 F.Supp.2d 1077 (S.D. Cal. 1998)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of California
Extract
To state a cause of action under RICO, Plaintiffs must establish (1) conduct
(2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity (5)
causing injury to the Plaintiffs' business or property by the conduct
constituting the violation. See Sedima v. Imrex Co., Inc., 473 U.S. 479, 496,
105 S.Ct. 3275, 87 L.Ed.2d 346 (1985). RICO, in pertinent part, defines
'racketeering activity,' as 'any act or threat ... which is indictable' under an
enumerated list of offenses codified in Title 18 of United States Code and
'which is chargeable under State law and punishable by imprisonment for
more than one year.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1). A pattern of racketeering activity
exists when a person commits two or more specified acts ('predicate acts')
that have sufficient continuity and relationship so as to pose a threat of
continued criminal activity. See, e.g., Ticor Title Ins. Co. v. Florida, 937 F.2d
447, 450 (9th Cir.1991). From the list of predicate acts, Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants' liability may be invoked from indictable violations of the
following sections of Title 18: § 1341 (mail fraud), § 1343 (wire fraud), §
1952 (interstate or foreign travel or use of interstate commerce in aid of
racketeering enterprises)...
Summary
Elements necessary to establish a RICO claim, which include demonstrating
conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity that
causes injury to business or property. It specifies that a pattern of
racketeering activity involves committing two or more predicate acts, such
as wire fraud and interstate travel in aid of racketeering, which are relevant
to the proposition. The passage also references the relevant sections of the
U.S. Code that define these predicate acts and the requirements for a RICO
claim.
Portionpac Chemical Corp. v. Sanitech Systems, 217 F.Supp.2d 1238 (M.D.
Fla. 2002)
U.S. District Court — Middle District of Florida
Extract
Congress designed the Federal Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO), Title 18, United States Code, Section 1961, et
seq. as a flexible tool to fight organized crime. As such, it makes the
following activities unlawful: ... (c) conducting or participating in the affairs
of any enterprise which affects interstate commerce through a pattern of
racketeering activity or collection of an unlawful debt; or (d) conspiring to

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
violate any of the provisions of Section 1962(a)-(c). 18 U.S.C. § 1962.
'Racketeering activities' covers a wide range of federal and state crimes,
including acts that are 'chargeable' under several generically described
state criminal laws, any act 'indictable' under numerous specific federal
criminal provisions, including mail and wire fraud, and any 'offense'
involving bankruptcy or securities fraud or drug-related activities that [are]
'punishable' under federal law. ... To engage in a 'pattern of racketeering
activity,' the defendant must have participated in 'at least two acts of
racketeering activity, one of which occurred after the effective date of
[RICO] and the last of which occurred within ten years (excluding any term
of imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act of racketeering
activity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5). ... The elements of a civil RICO claim are: '(1) a
violation of section 1962; (2) injury to business or property; and (3) that the
violation caused the injury.'
Summary
Detailed explanation of the RICO statute, including the types of activities
that constitute racketeering, the requirement for a pattern of racketeering
activity, and the elements necessary to establish a civil RICO claim. This
directly supports the proposition by confirming that wire fraud and other
acts can be considered predicate acts under RICO, and that a pattern of
such acts can lead to a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d). Additionally,
it confirms that a plaintiff has standing to bring a civil RICO claim if they can
demonstrate injury to business or property caused by the RICO violation.
Studco Bldg. Sys. U.S., LLC v. 1st Advantage Fed. Credit Union, 509 F.Supp.
3d 560 (E.D. Va. 2020)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Virginia
Extract
Plaintiff alleges Civil RICO against 1st Advantage and John Doe, pursuant to
18 U.S. C. §§ 1961 et seq. ECF No. 11 at ¶¶ 257-269. Generally, the elements
of a civil Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) claim
are (1) a person, (2) an enterprise, (3) a pattern of (4) racketeering activity
(5) which causes injury to the plaintiff. 18 U.S.C.A. § 1962 (a, c). 'The injury
and causation components [of element (5)] are viewed as standing
requirements.' D'Addario v. Geller, 264 F.Supp.2d 367, at 396 (E.D. Va.
2003); see also, Williams v. Equity Holding Corp., 498 F. Supp. 2d 831, 840
(E.D. Va. 2007). The Supreme Court has explained that a civil RICO claim
has four essential elements: '(1) conduct; (2) of an enterprise; (3) through a
pattern; (4) of racketeering activity.' Whitney, Bradley & Brown, Inc. v.
Kammermann, 436 F. App'x 257, 258 (4th Cir. 2011). 'Racketeering activity'
includes mail and wire fraud. See 18 U.S.C.A. § 1961(1)(B).

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Essential elements required to establish a civil RICO claim, which include
the existence of a person, an enterprise, a pattern of racketeering activity,
and an injury to the plaintiff. It also specifies that racketeering activity
includes acts like mail and wire fraud, which are relevant to the proposition.
The passage further clarifies that the injury and causation components are
viewed as standing requirements, which supports the proposition that the
plaintiff has standing to bring a civil RICO claim.
U.S. v. International Longshoremen's Ass'n, 518 F.Supp.2d 422 (E.D. N.Y.
2007)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
The Government alleges fifteen acts of racketeering undertaken by some or
all of the Racketeering Defendants... which it argues establish the 'pattern
of racketeering' necessary for RICO liability... Scollo eventually pleaded
guilty to RICO conspiracy in connection with his involvement in a number of
the racketeering schemes... All of the other Gotti defendants mentioned in
this action... were found guilty at trial of RICO conspiracy, substantive RICO
violation, and various acts of extortion, wire fraud, and money laundering
that were co-extensive with the predicate acts alleged in the RICO counts...
A substantial number of, the predicate acts alleged in the Amended
Complaint are asserted to be violations of the federal mail and wire fraud
statutes, 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343. As the Second Circuit has repeatedly
recognized, '[t]he essential elements of a mail [or wire] fraud violation are
(1) a scheme to defraud, (2) money or property [as the object of the
scheme], and (3) use of the mails [or wires] to further the scheme.'
Summary
Elements necessary to establish a RICO violation, including the requirement
of a pattern of racketeering activity and the involvement in predicate acts
such as wire fraud. It highlights that a pattern of racketeering can be
established through multiple predicate acts, which is relevant to the
proposition that Defendants Myers and Branthoover committed multiple
RICO predicate acts. The passage also outlines the essential elements of
wire fraud, which is one of the predicate acts alleged against the defendants
in the proposition.
Ticor Title Ins. Co. v. Florida, 937 F.2d 447 (9th Cir. 1991)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Ninth Circuit

=== PAGE 18 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
In H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Co., 492 U.S. 229, 109 S.Ct.
2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989), the Supreme Court discussed the term
'pattern of racketeering activity,' and held that it requires a plaintiff to 'show
that the racketeering predicates are related, and that they amount to or
pose a threat of continued criminal activity.' Id. at 239, 109 S.Ct. at 2900
(emphasis in original). The relationship requirement is satisfied by a
showing that the racketeering predicates 'have the same or similar
purposes, results, participants, victims, or methods of commission, or
otherwise are interrelated by distinguishing characteristics and are not
isolated events.' Id. at 240, 109 S.Ct. at 2901 (quotation omitted).
Summary
Legal standard for establishing a "pattern of racketeering activity" under
RICO, which requires showing that the predicate acts are related and pose a
threat of continued criminal activity. This is relevant to the proposition
because it supports the argument that Myers and Branthoover's actions
could constitute a pattern of racketeering activity if they meet these criteria.
Williams v. Equity Holding Corp., 498 F.Supp.2d 831 (E.D. Va. 2007)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Virginia
Extract
The Williams are also required to prove that defendants engaged in a
`pattern of racketeering activity.` ePlus Tech., Inc. v. Aboud, 313 F.3d 166,
181 (4th Cir.2002) (quoting 18 U.S.C. § 1962). `Under RICO, `racketeering
activity` is defined as `any act or threat` involving specified state law
crimes, such as murder or bribery, or an `act` indictable under various
federal statutes, such as mail and wire fraud.` Id. (quoting 18 U.S.C. §
1961(1)). To properly allege a pattern of such activity, `two or more
predicate acts of racketeering must have been committed within a ten year
period.` Id. (citing 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5)). Two acts are necessary, but not
sufficient to establish such a pattern.
Summary
Requirements for establishing a RICO claim, specifically the need to
demonstrate a "pattern of racketeering activity," which includes committing
two or more predicate acts within a ten-year period. It also specifies that
wire fraud is considered a predicate act under RICO. This directly supports
the proposition that Myers and Branthoover's alleged acts of wire fraud
could form part of a pattern of racketeering activity, thus constituting a
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d).

=== PAGE 19 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
American Chiropractic v. Trigon Healthcare, 367 F.3d 212 (4th Cir. 2004)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Fourth Circuit
Extract
RICO provides, in pertinent part, that '[i]t shall be unlawful for any person
who has received any income derived, directly or indirectly, from a pattern
of racketeering activity ... to use or invest, directly or indirectly, any part of
such income, or the proceeds of such income ... [in] the establishment or
operation of, any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce.' 18 U.S.C.A. § 1962(a). 'Any person
injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of section 1962 of
this chapter may sue ... and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains
and the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee.' 18 U.S.C.A. §
1964(c). A plaintiff bringing a civil RICO action under § 1964(c) must
adequately plead at least two predicate acts of racketeering that form a
'pattern of racketeering.' 18 U.S.C.A. § 1961(5).
Summary
Requirements for a civil RICO claim, including the need to demonstrate a
pattern of racketeering activity through at least two predicate acts. It also
clarifies that a person injured in their business or property due to a RICO
violation has standing to sue and recover damages. This directly supports
the proposition that Defendants Myers and Branthoover's alleged actions
could constitute RICO violations if they meet these criteria.
D'Addario v. Geller, 264 F.Supp.2d 367 (E.D. Va. 2003)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Virginia
Extract
Title 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) provides that 'it shall be unlawful for any person
employed by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities
of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate,
directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a
pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt.' According to
18 U.S.C. § 1961, racketeering must involve the commission of two or more
predicate acts, including mail fraud and obstruction of justice. A plaintiff
must plead all elements of the alleged violation of section 1962 in order to
state a civil claim under section 1964(c). Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex, Co., 473
U.S. 479, 496, 105 S.Ct. 3275, 87 L.Ed.2d 346 (1985). Thus, plaintiff must
allege '(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of
racketeering activity.' Id. Plaintiff must additionally show that (5) he was
injured in his business or property (6) by reason of the RICO violation. These
two additional elements are viewed as standing requirements, id. at 496-97,
105 S.Ct. 3275; both but-for and legal cause must be shown.

=== PAGE 20 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Legal framework for understanding how multiple predicate acts, such as
wire fraud and perjury, can form a pattern of racketeering activity, thus
supporting the proposition.
18 U.S.C. § 1962 18 U.S.C. § 1962 Prohibited Activities
Extract
It shall be unlawful for any person employed by or associated with any
enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of
such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity or
collection of unlawful debt. It shall be unlawful for any person to conspire to
violate any of the provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) makes it unlawful for individuals associated with an
enterprise affecting interstate commerce to conduct or participate in the
enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity. Additionally,
18 U.S.C. § 1962(d) makes it unlawful to conspire to violate the provisions of
subsections (a), (b), or (c). These provisions directly relate to the proposition
that Defendants Myers and Branthoover's conduct constitutes violations of
18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d) due to their alleged pattern of racketeering
activity, including wire fraud, interstate travel in aid of racketeering, and
perjury.
18 U.S.C. § 1961 18 U.S.C. § 1961 Definitions
Extract
As used in this chapter- 'racketeering activity' means... (B) any act which is
indictable under any of the following provisions of title 18, United States
Code: ... section 1343 (relating to wire fraud), ... section 1952 (relating to
racketeering), ... 'pattern of racketeering activity' requires at least two acts
of racketeering activity, one of which occurred after the effective date of this
chapter and the last of which occurred within ten years (excluding any
period of imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act of racketeering
activity;
Summary
The passage defines "racketeering activity" to include acts indictable under
specific sections of Title 18, such as wire fraud (section 1343) and
racketeering (section 1952). It also defines a "pattern of racketeering

=== PAGE 21 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
activity" as requiring at least two acts of racketeering activity within a
specified timeframe. This directly supports the proposition that Myers and
Branthoover's actions, if they include wire fraud and interstate travel in aid
of racketeering, could constitute a pattern of racketeering activity under
RICO. The definitions provided are essential for establishing the legal basis
for a RICO claim.
18 U.S.C. § 1964 18 U.S.C. § 1964 Civil Remedies
Extract
Any person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and
the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee...
Summary
The passage from 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c) explicitly states that any person
injured in their business or property due to a violation of section 1962 can
bring a lawsuit in a U.S. district court. This supports the proposition by
confirming that the plaintiff has standing to bring a civil RICO claim if they
have been injured by the defendants' alleged RICO predicate acts. The
provision for treble damages and attorney's fees further underscores the
legal remedy available to the plaintiff.
RICO - the rejection of an economic motive requirement.
Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology - Northwestern University,
School of Law - Randolph, Jennifer G. - 1995-03-22
Extract
RICO requires that the enterprise have an economic motive, the Court
defined enterprise as 'an entity,... a group of persons associated together for
a common purpose of engaging in a course of conduct,' which does not
require an economic motive. Thus, the Court established precedent for a
liberal reading of RICO, and specifically the term 'enterprise.' ... Shortly
after Haroco, the Supreme Court rejected a special standing requirement
for civil RICO plaintiffs in Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex Co., Inc. The fact pattern
in Sedima also did not involve organized crime. The dispute arose when a
joint international venture between the Belgian company, Sedima, and the
New York company, Imrex, went awry. Sedima alleged that Imrex committed
'violations of [sections] 1962(c), based on ... mail and wire fraud' when
Imrex 'present[ed] inflated bills, cheating Sedima out of a portion of its
proceeds by collecting for nonexistent expenses.' The Court rejected the
Second Circuit's amorphous 'organized crime' standing requirement that
demanded a RICO plaintiff to 'allege a 'racketeering injury'—

=== PAGE 22 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Broad interpretation of RICO by the courts, emphasizing that an economic
motive is not required for an enterprise under RICO. It also highlights that
the Supreme Court has rejected special standing requirements for civil
RICO plaintiffs, as seen in the Sedima case, where wire fraud was a
predicate act. This supports the proposition that wire fraud can be a
predicate act under RICO and that plaintiffs do not need to demonstrate an
economic motive or organized crime involvement to have standing.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bourgeois, Richard L., Jr. - 2000-03-22
Extract
The Court implored the lower courts to read RICO broadly(382) and to heed
the expansive language of the statute.(383) In reversing the Second Circuit's
standing limitations on [sections] 1962(c) claims, the Court held that the
'compensable injury necessarily is the harm caused by [the] predicate acts'
of a RICO violation.(384)... RICO's standing provision(385) provides that
'[a]ny person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
[sections] 1962' may bring a civil action under RICO.(386)... Some courts
hold that in order to establish standing in a civil conspiracy case, the act
causing the injury must be specifically codified as a RICO predicate act.
(403)...
Summary
Broad interpretation of RICO by the courts, emphasizing that compensable
injury is the harm caused by predicate acts of a RICO violation. It also
clarifies that any person injured in their business or property by a RICO
violation has standing to bring a civil action. This supports the proposition
that the plaintiff has standing to bring a civil RICO claim for injury to
business and property due to the alleged predicate acts by the defendants.
The passage also highlights the requirement that the act causing the injury
must be a RICO predicate act, which aligns with the proposition that the
defendants committed multiple RICO predicate acts.
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bailey, Lisa Pritchard - 1999-06-22

=== PAGE 23 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
RICO's standing provision(380) provides that '[a]ny person injured in his
business or property by reason of a violation of [sections] 1962 of this
chapter' may bring a civil action under RICO.(381)... Courts agree that to
establish standing under [sections] 1962(c),(388) a plaintiff must have
suffered a harm caused... Where the underlying violation is an alleged
[sections] 1962(d)(395) 'RICO conspiracy claim,'(396) the circuits disagree
as to which requirements must be met to establish standing for a civil suit.
Specifically, the circuits are divided as to whether the conspiratorial act
which results in an injury and provides the basis for a civil claim must be
specifically codified as a RICO predicate act,(397) or whether any overt act
in furtherance of a conspiracy to violate RICO is sufficient for standing.
Summary
N overview of the standing requirements under RICO, specifically under
sections 1962(c) and (d). It highlights that a person injured in their business
or property due to a RICO violation has standing to bring a civil action. It
also discusses the circuit split regarding the requirements for standing in a
RICO conspiracy claim under section 1962(d), which is relevant to the
proposition that Defendants committed acts forming a pattern of
racketeering activity. This supports the notion that if the plaintiff can
demonstrate injury from the predicate acts or acts in furtherance of a
conspiracy, they may have standing to bring a RICO claim.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Allison, Bridget - 1998-03-22
Extract
The first element of RICO requires two or more predicate acts of
'racketeering activity.' RICO defendants need not be convicted of each
'racketeering activity' before a substantive RICO offense is charged. Under
[sections] 1961(1), the term 'racketeering activity' includes a broad
assortment of state and federal crimes... Courts are in agreement that to
establish standing under [sections] 1962(c), a plaintiff must have suffered a
harm caused by one of the predicate acts covered by [sections] 1962(c).
Summary
Requirements for establishing a RICO claim, including the necessity of two
or more predicate acts of racketeering activity. It also clarifies that a
plaintiff must demonstrate harm caused by one of these predicate acts to
have standing under § 1962(c). This directly supports the proposition that
Myers and Branthoover's alleged actions could constitute a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO, and that the plaintiff may have standing to

=== PAGE 24 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
bring a civil RICO claim if they can show injury to business or property
caused by these acts.
RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
2021-07-01
Extract
Pattern RICO applies only to those injuries resulting from commission of
predicate acts constituting a “pattern of racketeering activity.”58 The
statutory definition of “pat-tern of racketeering activity” requires at least
two predicate acts occurring within ten years of each other.59 A “pattern of
racketeering activity” also requires evi-dence that the predicate acts are
continuous and interrelated, rather than isolated and sporadic.60 A plaintiff
can satisfy RICO’s pattern requirement two ways: by alleging a long-running
series of interrelated predicate acts constituting a closed-ended conspiracy;
or by alleging at least two interrelated predicate acts and the distinct threat
of continued racketeering activities, demonstrating an open-ended
conspiracy.61
Summary
Requirements for establishing a "pattern of racketeering activity" under
RICO, which is essential for proving violations of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d).
It specifies that at least two predicate acts must occur within ten years of
each other and that these acts must be continuous and interrelated. This
directly supports the proposition that Defendants Myers and Branthoover's
actions could constitute a pattern of racketeering activity if they committed
multiple predicate acts like wire fraud, interstate travel in aid of
racketeering, and perjury.
Reflections on Reves v. Ernst & Young: its meaning and impact on
substantive, accessory, aiding abetting and conspiracy liability under RICO.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Blakey, G. Robert - 1996-01-01
Extract
Consistent with RICO's Liberal Construction Directive and the approach of
common law civil conspiracy, the Third and Seventh Circuits correctly held
that a person possesses 'standing' to bring a civil action for a RICO
conspiracy if he was injured in his business or property by an overt act in
furtherance of the conspiracy. The courts further held that the overt act
need not also be 'racketeering activity' as defined under [sections] 1961 (1),

=== PAGE 25 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
and the person need not possess independent 'standing' to sue for the
substantive offenses under [sections] 1962(a), (b), or (C).
Summary
The Third and Seventh Circuits have interpreted RICO's provisions to allow
a person to have standing to bring a civil RICO conspiracy claim if they were
injured by an overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy. This interpretation
supports the proposition that a plaintiff can bring a civil RICO claim for
injury to business and property, even if the overt act is not a defined
racketeering activity under section 1961(1). This aligns with the proposition
that Defendants Myers and Branthoover's actions could form a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO.
Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy
The Brief - American Bar Association - 2024-01-01
Extract
A violation of § 1962(c), the section on which Sedima relies, requires (1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity. The plaintiff must allege each of the elements to state a claim. They
are all equally essential components, and the complaint will fail if any one of
them is not adequately pleaded. In particular, RICO claims based on mail or
wire fraud must comport with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 9(b)’s
requirement that allegations involving fraud be pleaded with particularity. ...
A plaintiff only has standing to sue if they have been injured in their
business or property by conduct constituting the violation. To establish a §
1962(c) RICO claim, the following elements must be proven: • Enterprise: A
structured group of individuals associated for a common purpose. • Pattern
of racketeering activity: At least two acts of racketeering, as specified within
the statute, within 10 years. • Conduct: Directly or indirectly conducting the
enterprise’s affairs through racketeering. • Injury: An injury to business or
property due to the racketeering activity.
Summary
Essential elements required to establish a civil RICO claim under § 1962(c),
which includes demonstrating conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of
racketeering activity, and an injury to business or property. It also
emphasizes the need for particularity in pleading fraud-related predicate
acts, such as wire fraud. This directly supports the proposition by providing
the legal framework and requirements that align with the alleged actions of
Defendants Myers and Branthoover.
RICO: A Primer

=== PAGE 26 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
RICO provides for a civil action against persons engaged in a 'pattern of
racketeering activity'... Among other things, 'racketeering activities' include
'any act which is indictable under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list
covers an expansive range of violations, for example, violations of... 18
U.S.C. ' 1343 (wire fraud);... 18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act)... Mail and wire
fraud are the most common predicate acts... A plaintiff is required to
demonstrate that the defendant conducted the affairs of an enterprise
though a pattern of racketeering activity... A plaintiff may demonstrate a
pattern by establishment that the predicate acts pose a threat of continued
criminal activity... Section 1962(c)... it is a violation to conduct the affairs of
an enterprise affecting interstate or foreign commerce 'through' a pattern of
racketeering activity... To prove a violation of Section 1962(c), a plaintiff
must prove the following elements:... The defendant participated in the
affairs of the enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity... Section
1962(d)... it is a violation to conspire to commit any of the three substantive
RICO offenses.
Summary
Legal framework for understanding how these acts can form a pattern of
racketeering activity, supporting the claim that their conduct constitutes
violations of RICO.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
RICO provides for a civil action against persons engaged in a 'pattern of
racketeering activity'... Among other things, 'racketeering activities' include
'any act which is indictable under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list
covers an expansive range of violations, for example, violations of... 18
U.S.C. ' 1343 (wire fraud);... 18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act)... Mail and wire
fraud are the most common predicate acts... There are four separate and
distinct RICO violations set out in section 1962:... (c) conducting the affairs
of an enterprise using racketeering activities; and (d) conspiring to so
acquire, control, or conduct.
Summary
The passage outlines that wire fraud and interstate travel in aid of
racketeering are considered predicate acts under RICO. It also explains the
elements required to establish a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) and (d),
which include conducting the affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of
racketeering activity and conspiring to commit such acts. This directly
supports the proposition that Myers and Branthoover's actions could
constitute RICO violations if they engaged in these predicate acts as part of
a pattern of racketeering activity.

=== PAGE 27 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of June 21, 2025. View full answer on vLex

