FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent----The-mother-s-attorney-prepared-the-fraudulent-agreement-and-participated-in-the-scheme-to-deprive-1.pdf
PAGES: 16
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
- The mother’s attorney prepared the fraudulent agreement and participated
in the scheme to deprive the father of property and business. - The attorney
attempted to add child support payments to the agreement, which the father
claims is an unlawful debt. - The attorney acted in concert with the mother,
the Oklahoma individual, and court officials. - Attorneys can be liable under
RICO if they participate in the conduct of an enterprise’s affairs through a
pattern of racketeering activity (18 U.S.C. § 1962(c); Handeen v. Lemaire,
112 F.3d 1339 (8th Cir. 1997)). - Preparing and submitting fraudulent
documents, and attempting to secure execution of documents by deception,
are predicate acts under RICO and Texas law (18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343; Tex.
Pen. Code § 32.46). - Attempting to collect an unlawful debt is a predicate
act under RICO (18 U.S.C. § 1961(6)). - The attorney’s preparation and
submission of fraudulent documents, and attempt to collect child support as
an unlawful debt, constitute predicate acts under RICO. - Acting in concert
with other participants to further the scheme satisfies the enterprise
requirement. - Therefore, the attorney is potentially liable under RICO for
participating in the conduct of the enterprise’s affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity. 
Answer (Fifth Circuit)
Short response
An attorney who prepares and submits fraudulent documents and
participates in a scheme to deprive another of property, including by
attempting to collect an unlawful debt, may be liable under RICO if these
actions constitute a pattern of racketeering activity conducted through an
enterprise. The provided authorities support the proposition that attorneys
are not immune from RICO liability and that such conduct can satisfy the
statutory requirements for a civil RICO claim.
Summary
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) imposes
liability on any person, including attorneys, who participate in the conduct
of an enterprise’s affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity or the
collection of unlawful debt. The authorities confirm that predicate acts such
as mail and wire fraud, as well as the collection of unlawful debts, can form
the basis of a RICO claim, and that attorneys may be liable if they are found
to have participated in such conduct as part of an enterprise.
In the scenario described, if the attorney’s actions—preparing fraudulent
agreements, attempting to collect what is alleged to be an unlawful debt,
and acting in concert with others—are proven to constitute a pattern of
racketeering activity, then RICO liability is possible. The law does not
exempt attorneys from RICO, and the elements of enterprise, pattern, and

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
predicate acts are all potentially satisfied on the facts as alleged, subject to
proof and the specific characterization of the child support obligation as an
"unlawful debt" under RICO.
Background and Relevant Law
Legislative Framework
The core statutory provision is 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), which makes it unlawful
for any person employed by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or
the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or
participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise’s affairs
through a pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt. The
statute defines "racketeering activity" to include a range of federal and state
offenses, notably including mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341) and wire fraud (18
U.S.C. § 1343), as well as the collection of "unlawful debt" (18 U.S.C. §
1961(6)).
To establish a civil RICO claim under § 1962(c), a plaintiff must show: (1)
conduct, (2) of an enterprise, (3) through a pattern, (4) of racketeering
activity, and (5) injury to business or property by reason of the RICO
violation, as confirmed in multiple authorities including State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. v. Misra, 658 F.Supp.3d 362 (W.D. Tex. 2023) and George v.
Blue Diamond Petroleum, Inc., 718 F.Supp. 539 (W.D. La. 1989).
Case Law
The courts have consistently held that attorneys can be liable under RICO if
they participate in the conduct of an enterprise’s affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity. The Supreme Court in Reves v. Ernst & Young clarified
that professionals, including lawyers, are not exempt from RICO liability if
they participate in the management or operation of the enterprise
(Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations. (2011-03-22); Racketeer
influenced and corrupt organizations. (2010-03-22)). The Fifth Circuit and
district courts within Texas have repeatedly articulated the elements of a
RICO claim and the inclusion of attorneys as potential defendants (U.S. v.
Cauble, 706 F.2d 1322 (5th Cir. 1983); U.S. v. Bright, 630 F.2d 804 (5th Cir.
1980); Heden v. Hill, 937 F.Supp. 1230 (S.D. Tex. 1996)).
Predicate acts under RICO include mail and wire fraud, which require a
scheme to defraud, use of the mails or wires, and intent to deceive (Heden v.
Hill, 937 F.Supp. 1230 (S.D. Tex. 1996)). The collection of unlawful debt is
also a predicate act, and RICO liability can be based solely on such
collection (Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations. (1998-03-22)).
The enterprise requirement is broadly construed and can include any group
of individuals associated in fact for a common purpose (Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (2022-07-01); U.S. v. Elliott, 571 F.2d
880 (5th Cir. 1978)). Even peripheral participants, such as attorneys who are
not central to the enterprise but who knowingly further its aims, may be
liable (U.S. v. Elliott, 571 F.2d 880 (5th Cir. 1978)).

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Analysis
1. Attorney Liability under RICO
The authorities make clear that attorneys are not immune from RICO
liability. The Supreme Court’s decision in Reves v. Ernst & Young, as
discussed in the secondary materials, confirms that professionals, including
lawyers, can be liable if they participate in the management or operation of
an enterprise’s affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity (Racketeer
influenced and corrupt organizations. (2011-03-22); Racketeer influenced
and corrupt organizations. (2010-03-22); Racketeer influenced and corrupt
organizations. (2005-03-22)). The Fifth Circuit has similarly held that RICO’s
reach extends to both insiders and outsiders who are associated with an
enterprise and participate in its affairs through racketeering activity (U.S. v.
Elliott, 571 F.2d 880 (5th Cir. 1978)).
The secondary materials specifically reference Handeen v. Lemaire, 112 F.3d
1339 (8th Cir. 1997), where attorneys who advised a debtor to misrepresent
expenses were found to have participated in a RICO enterprise
(RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS
(2021-07-01)). This supports the proposition that attorneys who actively
participate in fraudulent schemes can be liable under RICO.
2. Predicate Acts: Fraudulent Documents and Unlawful
Debt
RICO defines "racketeering activity" to include acts indictable under federal
statutes such as mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341) and wire fraud (18 U.S.C. §
1343) (Allstate Ins. Co. v. Benhamou, 190 F.Supp.3d 631 (S.D. Tex. 2016); 
Heden v. Hill, 937 F.Supp. 1230 (S.D. Tex. 1996); RICO: A Primer
(2022-01-31)). Preparing and submitting fraudulent documents, or
attempting to secure execution of documents by deception, can constitute
mail or wire fraud if the mails or wires are used in furtherance of the
scheme and there is intent to defraud. The authorities confirm that a
criminal conviction is not required for these acts to serve as predicate acts
in a civil RICO claim (Heden v. Hill, 937 F.Supp. 1230 (S.D. Tex. 1996)).
Additionally, the collection of "unlawful debt" is a separate predicate act
under RICO (Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations. (1998-03-22); 
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations. (2005-03-22)). The statute
defines "unlawful debt" in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(6), and courts have recognized
that a pattern of collecting unlawful debt alone can support RICO liability
(Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations. (1998-03-22)). However,
whether a child support obligation can be characterized as an "unlawful
debt" under RICO is a fact-intensive and legally complex question, as RICO’s
definition of "unlawful debt" is generally aimed at debts incurred in illegal
gambling or usurious lending. The authorities provided do not directly
address whether child support, even if fraudulently imposed, qualifies as an
"unlawful debt" under RICO, so this aspect would require further legal
analysis and likely judicial determination.

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
3. Pattern and Enterprise Requirements
To establish a RICO claim, there must be a "pattern" of racketeering activity,
which requires at least two related predicate acts that amount to or pose a
threat of continued criminal activity (George v. Blue Diamond Petroleum,
Inc., 718 F.Supp. 539 (W.D. La. 1989)). The acts must be related and
demonstrate continuity. If the attorney’s conduct involved multiple
fraudulent acts or attempts to collect unlawful debts as part of an ongoing
scheme, this could satisfy the pattern requirement.
The "enterprise" requirement is broadly construed. An enterprise can be any
group of individuals associated in fact for a common purpose, and need not
have a formal structure or economic motive (Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations (2022-07-01)). The authorities confirm that acting in
concert with others, such as the mother, the Oklahoma individual, and court
officials, can satisfy the enterprise element if the group is associated for the
purpose of carrying out the alleged scheme (U.S. v. Elliott, 571 F.2d 880 (5th
Cir. 1978)).
4. Application to the Scenario
Applying these principles, if the attorney prepared and submitted fraudulent
documents as part of a scheme to deprive the father of property or business,
and if these acts involved the use of mail or wire communications with intent
to defraud, they could constitute predicate acts of mail or wire fraud under
RICO. If the attorney also attempted to collect child support payments that
are alleged to be an "unlawful debt," and if such collection meets the
statutory definition, this could serve as an additional predicate act.
If these acts were not isolated but part of a broader scheme involving
multiple participants acting in concert, the enterprise and pattern
requirements could be satisfied. The authorities confirm that even
peripheral participants, such as attorneys who knowingly further the
enterprise’s aims, may be liable under RICO (U.S. v. Elliott, 571 F.2d 880
(5th Cir. 1978)).
5. Civil Remedies
RICO provides for a civil cause of action for any person injured in their
business or property by reason of a RICO violation, including treble
damages (State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Misra, 658 F.Supp.3d 362 (W.D.
Tex. 2023)). Thus, if the father can establish the elements of a RICO claim,
he may seek civil remedies against the attorney and other participants.
Exceptions and Caveats
A key caveat is the characterization of the child support obligation as an
"unlawful debt" under RICO. The authorities provided do not directly
address whether child support, even if fraudulently imposed, qualifies as an
"unlawful debt" within the meaning of 18 U.S.C. § 1961(6). RICO’s definition
of "unlawful debt" is generally aimed at debts arising from illegal gambling

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
or usurious lending, and courts have been reluctant to expand this definition
to other types of obligations. Therefore, while the attempt to collect such a
debt could be alleged as a predicate act, its success as a RICO predicate
would depend on judicial interpretation.
Another important limitation is that RICO liability requires proof of intent
and knowing participation in the scheme. Mere preparation of documents,
without knowledge of or intent to further a fraudulent scheme, would not
suffice. The facts must establish that the attorney knowingly participated in
the conduct of the enterprise’s affairs through a pattern of racketeering
activity.
Finally, while the authorities confirm that attorneys can be liable under
RICO, they also require that the attorney’s actions rise to the level of
participation in the management or operation of the enterprise, as clarified
in Reves v. Ernst & Young. Peripheral or incidental involvement may not be
sufficient unless it constitutes participation in the conduct of the
enterprise’s affairs.
Conclusion
In summary, the authorities provided support the proposition that an
attorney who prepares and submits fraudulent documents and participates
in a scheme to deprive another of property, including by attempting to
collect an unlawful debt, may be liable under RICO if these actions
constitute a pattern of racketeering activity conducted through an
enterprise. Attorneys are not exempt from RICO liability, and predicate acts
such as mail and wire fraud, as well as the collection of unlawful debts, can
form the basis of a RICO claim. However, the specific characterization of
child support as an "unlawful debt" under RICO is uncertain and would
require further legal analysis. The ultimate determination of liability would
depend on the specific facts and the ability to prove the elements of a RICO
claim, including intent, pattern, enterprise, and injury.
Legal Authorities
U.S. v. Cauble, 706 F.2d 1322 (5th Cir. 1983)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Fifth Circuit
Extract
RICO criminalizes the conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of
racketeering activity and not merely the defendant's engaging in
racketeering activity. Therefore, there must be a nexus between the
enterprise, the defendant, and the pattern of racketeering activity. ... A
defendant does not 'conduct' or 'participate in the conduct' of a lawful
enterprise's affairs, unless (1) the defendant has in fact committed the
racketeering acts as alleged; (2) the defendant's position in the enterprise
facilitated his commission of the racketeering acts, and (3) the predicate
acts had some effect on the lawful enterprise.

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Requirements for a defendant to be considered as conducting or
participating in the conduct of an enterprise's affairs through racketeering
activity. This includes committing the racketeering acts, having a position
that facilitates these acts, and the acts affecting the enterprise. These
elements align with the proposition that an attorney could be liable under
RICO if they prepared fraudulent documents and attempted to collect an
unlawful debt as part of a scheme.
Allstate Ins. Co. v. Benhamou, 190 F.Supp.3d 631 (S.D. Tex. 2016)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
RICO makes it 'unlawful for any person employed by or associated with any
enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of
such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity or
collection of unlawful debt.' Boyle v. United States, 556 U.S. 938, 943–45,
129 S.Ct. 2237, 173 L.Ed.2d 1265 (2009) (quoting 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) )
(internal quotation marks omitted). ... 'Pattern of racketeering activity' is a
defined term and has two components. In re Burzynski, 989 F.2d 733, 742
(5th Cir.1993) ; 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5). First, there must be at least two
predicate acts of 'racketeering activity.' Burzynski, 989 F.2d at 742. Second,
there must be a pattern of such acts. Id. 'Racketeering activity,' is defined by
reference to various state and federal offenses. Foufas, 867 F.2d at 880 ; 18
U.S.C. § 1961(1). One of the enumerated crimes is mail fraud. See 18 U.S.C.
§ 1961(1)(B) (defining any act indictable under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 —the mail
fraud statute—as 'racketeering activity').
Summary
Requirements for establishing liability under RICO, specifically under 18
U.S.C. § 1962(c). It explains that a person can be liable if they conduct or
participate in an enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering
activity or collection of unlawful debt. The passage also defines
"racketeering activity" to include acts like mail fraud, which are relevant to
the proposition that the attorney's actions could constitute predicate acts
under RICO. This supports the argument that the attorney's preparation and
submission of fraudulent documents, and attempt to collect child support as
an unlawful debt, could be considered racketeering activities.
In re Mastercard Intern. Inc., Internet Gamb., 132 F.Supp.2d 468 (E.D. La.
2001)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Louisiana

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Pertinent to this case is § 1962(c) which provides that 'it shall be unlawful
for any person employed by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or
the activities of which effect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or
participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs
through a pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt.' 18
U.S.C. § 1962(c). ... A stated above, section 1962(c) also makes it unlawful
'for any person through a pattern of racketeering activity or through a
collection of unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or indirectly, any
interest in or control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities
of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce.' 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c)
(emphasis added).
Summary
The passage explains the application of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), which makes it
unlawful for any person associated with an enterprise to conduct its affairs
through a pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt. This
directly supports the proposition that an attorney could be liable under
RICO if they participate in such activities. The passage also highlights that
the collection of unlawful debt is an alternative means to trigger RICO
liability, which aligns with the claim that attempting to collect child support
as an unlawful debt could be a predicate act.
U.S. v. Elliott, 571 F.2d 880 (5th Cir. 1978)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Fifth Circuit
Extract
The substantive proscriptions of the RICO statute apply to insiders and
outsiders those merely 'associated with' an enterprise who participate
directly and indirectly in the enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity. 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). ... Thus, the RICO net is woven
tightly to trap even the smallest fish, those peripherally involved with the
enterprise. ... Direct evidence of agreement is unnecessary: 'proof of such an
agreement may rest upon inferences drawn from relevant and competent
circumstantial evidence ordinarily the acts and conduct of the alleged
conspirators themselves'.
Summary
The passage from U.S. v. Elliott discusses the broad application of the RICO
statute, emphasizing that it applies to both insiders and outsiders who are
associated with an enterprise and participate in its affairs through a pattern
of racketeering activity. It highlights that even peripheral involvement can
lead to liability under RICO, and that direct evidence of an agreement is not
necessary; circumstantial evidence can suffice. This supports the proposition

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
that an attorney, even if not a central figure, could be liable under RICO if
they participated in the fraudulent scheme as part of an enterprise's affairs.
George v. Blue Diamond Petroleum, Inc., 718 F.Supp. 539 (W.D. La. 1989)
U.S. District Court — Western District of Louisiana
Extract
Plaintiffs' most substantial claims are made pursuant to RICO, 18 U.S.C. §
1962(c), which provides: It shall be unlawful for any person employed by or
associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities which affect,
interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or
indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt. ... For plaintiffs to
prevail on their RICO claims, the parties agree that plaintiffs must show: (1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity
and (5) injury as a result of such conduct. ... The court found that RICO's
legislative history reveals a Congressional intent to require a RICO plaintiff
to prove (1) the racketeering predicates are related and (2) the acts amount
to or pose a threat of continued criminal activity.
Summary
Elements required to establish a RICO violation, which includes conduct of
an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity or collection of
unlawful debt. It also emphasizes the need for related racketeering
predicates and a threat of continued criminal activity. This supports the
proposition that an attorney could be liable under RICO if they engage in
such conduct, as alleged in the proposition.
Heden v. Hill, 937 F.Supp. 1230 (S.D. Tex. 1996)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
Under § 1961(1)(B), racketeering activity includes any act which is
indictable under a number of federal criminal statutes, including mail fraud
and wire fraud. Any act that does not fall within the purview of RICO's
definition of predicate offenses is not an act of 'racketeering activity.' ... In
this case, Heden alleges mail fraud and wire fraud as predicate acts
supporting his civil RICO claims. See 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343. A criminal
conviction of the defendants for mail or wire fraud is not a condition of
urging these offenses as the basis for civil RICO claims. ... For mail fraud, it
is necessary to show that (1) the defendants formed a scheme or artifice to
defraud; (2) the defendants used the United States mails or caused a use of

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
the United States mails in furtherance of the scheme; and (3) the defendants
did so with the specific intent to deceive or defraud.
Summary
The passage from Heden v. Hill outlines the requirements for establishing
predicate acts under RICO, specifically mail and wire fraud. It explains that
these acts are considered racketeering activities under RICO if they involve
a scheme to defraud, use of mail or wire communications, and intent to
deceive. This supports the proposition that the attorney's actions, if they
involved fraudulent documents and attempts to collect unlawful debts, could
be considered predicate acts under RICO. The passage also clarifies that a
criminal conviction is not necessary to pursue a civil RICO claim, which
aligns with the proposition that the attorney could be liable under RICO.
State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Misra, 658 F.Supp.3d 362 (W.D. Tex. 2023)
U.S. District Court — Western District of Texas
Extract
The RICO statute makes it 'unlawful for any person employed by or
associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities which affect,
interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or
indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). 'Any person injured in his
business or property by reason of a violation of section 1962' may bring a
civil suit for treble damages. Id. § 1964(c). 'To state a claim under § 1962(c),
a plaintiff must adequately plead that the defendant engaged in '(1) conduct
(2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity.'
Summary
Elements required to establish a RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c),
which includes demonstrating conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of
racketeering activity. This directly supports the proposition that an attorney
could be liable under RICO if they participate in such conduct. The passage
also mentions that any person injured by a RICO violation can bring a civil
suit for damages, which aligns with the proposition's claim of potential
liability for the attorney.
U.S. v. Bright, 630 F.2d 804 (5th Cir. 1980)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Fifth Circuit

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Section 1962(c) of Title 18 provides: It shall be unlawful for any person
employed by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities
of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate,
directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a
pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt. Thus, to prove
a RICO violation, the government must prove (1) the existence of an
enterprise; (2) that the defendant is 'associated with' the enterprise; (3) that
the defendant participated in the conduct of the enterprise's affairs; and (4)
that the participation was through a pattern of racketeering activity.
Summary
Elements necessary to establish a RICO violation, which includes the
existence of an enterprise, association with the enterprise, participation in
the enterprise's affairs, and a pattern of racketeering activity. This directly
supports the proposition that an attorney could be liable under RICO if they
participate in a scheme involving fraudulent agreements and unlawful debts,
as these actions could constitute a pattern of racketeering activity.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Argust, Corey P. - 2010-03-22
Extract
Section 1962(c) prohibits persons employed by or associated with an
enterprise from conducting or participating in the conduct or the affairs of
that enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. A relationship
between the pattern of racketeering activity and the enterprise is required.
Reves v. Ernst & Young, the Supreme Court held that the requisite nexus
exists only when the defendant participates in the management or operation
of the enterprise. Reves does not preclude professionals, such as lawyers
and accountants, from being subject to RICO liability.
Summary
Requirements for RICO liability under Section 1962(c), emphasizing that
individuals, including professionals like lawyers, can be held liable if they
participate in the management or operation of an enterprise through a
pattern of racketeering activity. This supports the proposition that the
attorney could be liable under RICO for their alleged actions.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bourgeois, Richard L., Jr. - 2000-03-22
Extract
an interest in an enterprise affecting interstate commerce;(10) (b) acquiring
or maintaining through a pattern of racketeering activity or through
collection of an unlawful debt an interest in an enterprise affecting
interstate commerce;(11) (c) conducting or participating in the conduct of
the affairs of an enterprise affecting interstate commerce through a pattern
of racketeering activity or through collection of an unlawful debt;(12) or (d)
conspiring to participate in any of these activities.(13) RICO's purpose is to
remove organized crime from the legitimate business community.(14)...
persons employed by or associated with an enterprise from conducting or
participating in the conduct or the affairs of that enterprise through a
pattern of racketeering activity.(197) This requires a relationship between
the pattern of racketeering activity anti the enterprise.(198)... The Reves
decision does not preclude professionals, such as lawyers and accountants,
from being subject to RICO liability.(202)
Summary
Conditions under which individuals, including professionals like lawyers, can
be held liable under RICO for participating in an enterprise's affairs through
a pattern of racketeering activity. It specifies that such participation can
include conducting or participating in the conduct of the enterprise's affairs
through a pattern of racketeering activity or through the collection of an
unlawful debt. The passage also clarifies that professionals are not exempt
from RICO liability, supporting the proposition that an attorney could be
liable under RICO for the described actions.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Sacks, Michele - 2005-03-22
Extract
To prosecute a defendant under RICO, the government must prove that the
defendant: (i) through the commission of two or more acts constituting a
pattern of racketeering activity; (ii) directly or indirectly invested in,
maintained an interest in, or participated in, an enterprise; (iii) the activities
of which affected interstate or foreign commerce... Reves does not preclude
professionals, such as lawyers and accountants, from being subject to RICO
liability... An individual may violate [section] 1962 not only by engaging in a
'pattern of racketeering activity,' but also through 'collection of an unlawful
debt.'

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Necessary elements for a RICO offense, including the commission of
predicate acts and participation in an enterprise affecting interstate
commerce. It also clarifies that collecting an unlawful debt can be a
predicate act under RICO.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Douglass, Sean M. - 2011-03-22
Extract
Section 1962(c) prohibits persons employed by or associated with an
enterprise from conducting or participating in the conduct or the affairs of
that enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. A relationship
between the pattern of racketeering activity and the enterprise is required.
In Reves v. Ernst & Young, the Supreme Court held that the requisite nexus
exists only when the defendant participates in the management or operation
of the enterprise. Reves does not preclude professionals, such as lawyers
and accountants, from being subject to RICO liability. The enterprise may be
'operated...'
Summary
The passage explains that under Section 1962(c), individuals associated with
an enterprise can be liable if they conduct or participate in the enterprise's
affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity. The Supreme Court's
decision in Reves v. Ernst & Young clarifies that professionals, including
lawyers, can be held liable under RICO if they participate in the
management or operation of the enterprise. This supports the proposition
that the attorney could be liable under RICO for their involvement in the
fraudulent scheme.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Allison, Bridget - 1998-03-22
Extract
Section [sections] 1962(c) prohibits persons employed by or associated with
an enterprise from conducting or participating in the conduct of the affairs
of that enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. This requires a
relationship between the pattern of racketeering activity and the enterprise.
The Supreme Court, in Reves, held that the requisite nexus exists only when
the defendant's predicate acts 'rise to the level' of participation in the

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
management or operation of the enterprise. Although RICO liability is not
solely laid upon those with primary responsibility for the enterprise's affairs,
to 'conduct or participate'... 1962(a)-(c) (1994). The Act defines an 'unlawful
debt' at 18 U.S.C. [sections] 1961(6) (1994). The government has alleged a
RICO violation involving the collection of an unlawful debt in a number of
cases. See United States v. Oreto, 37 F.3d 739, 750 (1st Cir. 1994) (holding
that a pattern of collection of unlawful debt alone is a predicate act for RICO
liability)...
Summary
RICO liability can be established if there is a relationship between the
pattern of racketeering activity and the enterprise. The passage also
clarifies that the collection of an unlawful debt is a predicate act under
RICO. This supports the proposition that the attorney's actions, if they
involve preparing fraudulent documents and attempting to collect an
unlawful debt, could constitute predicate acts under RICO.
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bailey, Lisa Pritchard - 1999-06-22
Extract
conduct or the affairs of that enterprise through a pattern of racketeering
activity.(187) This requires a relationship between the pattern of
racketeering activity and the enterprise.(188) ... The Reves decision does
not preclude professionals, such as lawyers and accountants, from being
subject to RICO liability.(192) ... An individual may violate [sections] 1962
not only by engaging in a 'pattern of racketeering activity' but also through
'collection of an unlawful debt.' 18 U.S.C. [sections] 1962(a)-(c) (1994).
Summary
Requirements for RICO liability, including the need for a relationship
between the pattern of racketeering activity and the enterprise. It also
clarifies that professionals, such as lawyers, can be subject to RICO liability
if they participate in the conduct of an enterprise's affairs through a pattern
of racketeering activity or collection of an unlawful debt. This directly
supports the proposition that the attorney could be liable under RICO for
their actions.
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Adam Governale, Keyes Gilmer, Elizabeth Hadley, Caroline Lagumina,
Omoyele Okunola - 2022-07-01

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Section 1962(c), the most commonly used RICO provision, prohibits persons
employed by or associated with an enterprise from conducting or
participating in the conduct or affairs of that enterprise through a pattern of
racketeering activity. A relationship, or nexus, between the pattern of
racketeering activity and the enterprise is required. ... Consequently, since
the enterprise in subsection (c) is not being acquired, it need not have a
property interest that can be acquired nor an economic motive for engaging
in illegal activity; it need only be an association in fact that engages in a
pattern of racketeering activity.
Summary
Section 1962(c) of RICO prohibits individuals associated with an enterprise
from participating in its affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity.
The passage emphasizes that the enterprise need not have a property
interest or economic motive; it only needs to be an association in fact
engaging in racketeering activity. This supports the proposition that an
attorney, by preparing fraudulent documents and attempting to collect
unlawful debts, could be participating in a RICO enterprise if these actions
are part of a pattern of racketeering activity.
RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
2021-07-01
Extract
conducting, or participating in the conduct of, the affairs of an enterprise
affecting interstate or foreign commerce through a pattern of racketeering
activity or collection of unlawful debt;... To prosecute a defendant under
RICO, the government must prove the defendant: directly or indirectly
invested in, maintained an interest in, or participated in an enterprise;
through the commission of two or more acts; constituting a pattern of
racketeering activity; affecting interstate or foreign commerce... An
“enterprise” includes “any individual, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals associated in
fact.”... A RICO defendant may also be an individual who is not formally
employed by the enterprise, but still assists the enterprise in its
racketeering activities... See e.g., Handeen v. Lemaire, 112 F.3d 1339, 1349–
50 (8th Cir. 1997) (finding that attorneys who advised debtor to
misrepresent expenses had participated in a RICO enterprise).
Summary
RICO statutes can apply to individuals, including attorneys, who participate
in the conduct of an enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
activity. The passage specifically mentions that attorneys can be involved in
RICO enterprises, as seen in the case of Handeen v. Lemaire. The definition
of an enterprise under RICO is broad and includes any group of individuals
associated in fact, which can encompass the alleged scheme involving the
attorney, the mother, and others. The passage also highlights that
participating in the conduct of an enterprise through racketeering activities,
such as preparing fraudulent documents or attempting to collect unlawful
debts, can constitute RICO violations.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
RICO provides for a civil action against persons engaged in a 'pattern of
racketeering activity' or 'collection of an unlawful debt.' ... Among other
things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is indictable under' a
list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an expansive range of
violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18 U.S.C. ' 1951
(extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud)... Mail and
wire fraud are the most common predicate acts. ... Under section 1962(c), it
is a violation to conduct the affairs of an enterprise affecting interstate or
foreign commerce 'through' a pattern of racketeering activity or through the
alternative theory of collection of an unlawful debt. To prove a violation of
Section 1962(c), a plaintiff must prove the following elements: * Existence of
an enterprise; * The enterprise engaged in, or its activities affected,
interstate or foreign commerce; * The defendant was employed by or was
associated with the enterprise; * The defendant conducted or participated,
either directly or indirectly, in the conduct of the affairs of the enterprise;
and * The defendant participated in the affairs of the enterprise through a
pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt.
Summary
Mail and wire fraud are common predicate acts under RICO, which aligns
with the claim of preparing and submitting fraudulent documents.
Additionally, the passage outlines the elements required to prove a violation
of Section 1962(c), which includes conducting the affairs of an enterprise
through racketeering activity or unlawful debt collection. This supports the
proposition that the attorney's actions could potentially be considered a
RICO violation.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
RICO provides for a civil action against persons engaged in a 'pattern of
racketeering activity' or 'collection of an unlawful debt.' ... Among other
things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is indictable under' a

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an expansive range of
violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18 U.S.C. ' 1951
(extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud); ... Mail and
wire fraud are the most common predicate acts. ... Under section 1962(c), it
is a violation to conduct the affairs of an enterprise affecting interstate or
foreign commerce 'through' a pattern of racketeering activity or through the
alternative theory of collection of an unlawful debt. To prove a violation of
Section 1962(c), a plaintiff must prove the following elements: * Existence of
an enterprise; * The enterprise engaged in, or its activities affected,
interstate or foreign commerce; * The defendant was employed by or was
associated with the enterprise; * The defendant conducted or participated,
either directly or indirectly, in the conduct of the affairs of the enterprise;
and * The defendant participated in the affairs of the enterprise through a
pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt.
Summary
RICO allows for civil action against individuals engaged in a pattern of
racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt. The passage outlines
that mail and wire fraud are common predicate acts under RICO, which
aligns with the claim of preparing and submitting fraudulent documents.
Additionally, the passage explains the elements required to prove a violation
of Section 1962(c), which includes conducting the affairs of an enterprise
through racketeering activity or unlawful debt collection. This supports the
proposition that the attorney's actions could potentially be considered a
RICO violation.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of September 06, 2025. View full answer on vLex

