FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-MANDAMUS-1--JUDGE-KAITCER--1-NO--25-_____-IN-THE-SUPREME-COURT-OF-TEXAS-IN-RE--CHARLES-DUSTIN-MYERS--1.pdf
PAGES: 117
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
MANDAMUS 1: JUDGE KAITCER 1 NO. 25-_____ IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TEXAS IN RE: CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, RELATOR. On Petition for
Writ of Mandamus to the 322nd Judicial District Court, Tarrant County
Cause No. 322-744263-23 On Mandamus Review from Cause No.
02-25-00166-CV in the Second District Court of Appeals, Fort Worth, Texas
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS Respectfully submitted by: Charles
Dustin Myers chuckdustin12@gmail.com Tel.: 817-546-3693 6641 Anne
Court Watauga, Texas 76148 Emergency Relief Requested FILED 25-0361
5/1/2025 8:36 AM tex-100310746 SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS BLAKE A.
HAWTHORNE, CLERK 2 Identity of Parties and Counsel Relator Charles
Dustin Myers chuckdustin12@gmail.com Respondent Hon. Jeff Kaitcer
Associate Judge 322nd District Court, Tarrant County, Texas
LKBaker@tarrantcountytx.gov Tel.: 817-884-1427 200 E. Weatherford St.
4th Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-0227 Real Party in Interest Morgan Michelle
Myers Morganmw02@gmail.com Counsel for Real Party in Interest Cooper
L. Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com Tel.: (817) 926-6211 Marx, Altman &
Johnson 2905 Lackland Road Fort Worth, TX 76116; Intervenors – Appellate
Level Deterrean Gamble (Bar No. 24062194) Nicole Loya (Bar No.
24082948) Tel: (512) 460-6672 deterrean.gamble@texasattorneygeneral.gov
nicole.loya@oag.texas.gov 5500 East Oltorf Austin, Texas 78741 Matthew
Deal (Bar No. 24087397) Tel: (512) 460-6132
matthew.deal@texasattorneygeneral.gov 314 West 11th Street Austin, Texas
78701-2112 Intervenors – Trial Court Level Holly Hayes (Bar No. 24110698)
CSD-legal914@texasattorneygeneral.gov Tel: 817-459-6878 2001 Beach St
Fort Worth, TX 76103-2308 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Identity of Parties and
Counsel....................................................................... 2 Table of
Contents............................................................................................ 3 Index of
Authorities ........................................................................................ 4
Statement of the Case......................................................................................
5 Statement of
Jurisdiction................................................................................. 6 Issues
Presented .............................................................................................. 7
Statement of Facts...........................................................................................
8 Summary of Argument.................................................................................
8-9
Argument.........................................................................................................
9 A. Standard of Review............................................................................ 9 B.
The associate judge had no authority to enter the challenged orders without
a written agreement or unrevoked waiver .......... 10-11 C. The orders are
void, the Relator has no adequate appellate remedy, and mandamus must
issue to vacate them................. 11-13
Conclusion ....................................................................................................
13 Prayer for Expedited Relief .........................................................................
14 Certification (TRAP 52.3(j)).........................................................................
15 Certificate of Compliance (TRAP 9.4(i)(3)).................................................
15 Certificate of
Service .................................................................................... 16 4 Index of
Authorities Cases Page Browning v. Prostok, 165 S.W.3d 336, 346 (Tex.

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
2005) ............................................................. 12 Burnaman v. Heaton, 240
S.W.2d 288, 291 (Tex. 1951) ............................................................. 12 In re
Nationwide Ins. Co. of Am., 494 S.W.3d 708, 712 (Tex. 2016) (orig.
proceeding) ................................. 9 PNS Stores, Inc. v. Rivera, 379 S.W.3d
267, 271–73 (Tex. 2012) .................................................. 11-12 In re Sw. Bell
Tel. Co., 35 S.W.3d 602, 605 (Tex. 2000) (orig.
proceeding) ..............................9-10 Travelers Ins. Co. v. Joachim, 315 S.W.
3d 860, 863 (Tex. 2010) ............................................................. 12 Walker v.
Packer, 827 S.W.2d 833, 839 (Tex.
1992) ............................................................. 13 Statutes and Rules Tex.
Fam. Code § 201.007 ..................................................................... passim Tex.
Fam. Code § 201.013 ......................................................................... 8,11 Tex.
Fam. Code § 201.015 ............................................................................ 11 5
Statement of the Case Nature of Underlying Proceeding: This original
proceeding arises from a divorce matter pending in the 322nd District Court
of Tarrant County, Texas (Cause No. 322-744263-23), concerning two minor
children, M.E.M. and C.R.M. The Relator has been on a solo flight seeking
un-opposed relief for over fourteen months, and his mandamus was denied
in the Second Court of Appeals on April 15, 2025. (Case No. 02-25-00166-
CV) Respondent Judge: The Respondent Judge, Honorable Jeffrey Kaitcer, is
the presiding Associate Judge of the 322nd District Court of Tarrant County,
Texas. His office is located at Family Law Center 200 E. Weatherford St. 4th
Floor, Fort Worth, TX 76196-0230. Respondent’s Challenged Action: On
March 14, 2024, Respondent presided over a hearing concerning an agreed
associate judge’s report signed on February 1, 2024. Prior to the hearing,
the Relator had filed an emergency motion to vacate and expressly withdrew
his consent. At the conclusion of the hearing, Respondent ordered Relator to
sign proposed agreed orders to which he had not consented to. 6 Statement
of Jurisdiction STATEMENT OF JURISDICTION This Honorable Court has
jurisdiction to consider this original proceeding for writ of mandamus. Tex.
Const. art. V, § 3(a); Tex. Gov’t Code § 22.002. 7 Issues Presented Issue No.
1: The associate judge had no authority to enter the challenged orders
without a written agreement or unrevoked waiver. Issue No. 2: Because the
orders are void, Relator has no adequate appellate remedy and mandamus
must issue to vacate them. 8 STATEMENT OF FACTS In this case Relator
Charles D. Myers signed an “Agreed Associate Judge’s Report” on February
1, 2024, under prior counsel (MR 8), then promptly discharged his lawyer
(MR 5). On February 8, 2024, the report was entered by the clerk, and the
Relator revoked consent on February 9 by filing an emergency motion
(styled to vacate) within three working days of notice. (MR 12) That filing
served as a de novo hearing request under Tex. Fam. Code §201.015. On
March 14 an associate judge (Hon. Kaitcer) held the hearing – although
under §201.015 the referring district judge should have conducted it – and
denied Relator’s motion. The associate judge then ordered Relator to sign
the previously agreed terms. (APP 1.1) On March 26 the court issued
“Temporary Orders” reciting that “all parties have agreed to the terms… as
evidenced by the signatures below,” even though Relator had not signed and
in fact had disavowed consent. (APP 2.1) The elected district judge never
signed or adopted those orders under Tex. Fam. Code §201.013. The orders
have been in effect since March 14, 2024, and no opposition to the relief
being sought has been filed. SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT The Respondent
exceeded his statutory authority when he entered an agreed order where

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
only one party consented to the terms of the agreement and where a timely
review was requested. Both statutory law and case law require mutual 9
consent of all parties at the time the agreed order is rendered, with the only
exception being certain mediated settlement agreements that have been
properly executed by all parties, which does not apply to this case. Here, a
Father was removed from his home based on false allegations of family
violence and then was later ordered to agree to a settlement leveraged by
the Real Party in Interest. These actions defy the very principles of justice,
and have left the Relator without a stable home, left him unable to work, and
has significantly disrupted the status quo and the relationship between with
his two minor children named in this suit. The orders should be declared
void ab initio and vacated through mandamus. ARGUMENT A. Standard of
review For mandamus relief, a relator must establish that an order is void or
a clear abuse of discretion with no adequate remedy by appeal. In re
Nationwide Ins. Co. of Am., 494 S.W.3d 708, 712 (Tex. 2016) (orig.
proceeding). A void order is an abuse of discretion, and mandamus will issue
to remedy it regardless of whether the relator has an adequate remedy by
appeal. In re Sw. Bell Tel. Co., 35 S.W.3d 602, 605 (Tex. 2000) (orig.
proceeding) Here, the Relator contends the orders are indeed void because
the Associate Judge had no authority to render the orders in question, and
they were never properly adopted by the referring court under the Texas
Family Code. 10 B. The associate judge had no authority to enter the
challenged orders without a written agreement or unrevoked waiver. Texas
law limits the acts an associate judge may perform and the orders he may
sign. Section 201.007 of the Family Code enumerates those powers. An
associate judge may recommend an order to the referring court, but he may
render and sign a final order only under narrow circumstances. Specifically,
§ 201.007(a)(14) permits an associate judge to sign a final order only if all
parties have agreed in writing or a party is in default, or if a party has
waived notice or appearance at the final hearing. Subsection (a)(16) permits
a final order if the parties sign a written waiver of a de novo hearing before
the hearing begins. In all other cases, an associate judge may only submit
findings and recommendations to the referring court. Here, Relator’s own
filings establish that he withdrew consent and timely sought a de novo
hearing, removing any statutory authority to enter the March 26 orders. The
record shows that on February 1, 2024, Relator signed an Associate Judge’s
Report for “Agreed Temporary Orders”. Relator’s consent was not
irrevocable, however. On February 9 he filed in the trial court a “Motion for
Reconsideration and to Vacate Temporary Orders” which explicitly withdrew
his consent and requested a hearing. This filing fell well within the three-
working-day deadline of § 201.015(a). In compliance with § 201.015(f), the
hearing was promptly set. Once Relator withdrew his agreement, the
associate judge lost power 11 to enter any final order without a de novo
hearing. Under § 201.007(c), the associate judge’s proposed order could not
“become final” because Relator had requested de novo review. Moreover, § 
201.013(b) requires the referring judge’s signature for an unsigned
associate judge’s order to take effect. Here the district court clerk filed the
orders on March 26 with only his own attestation. Simply put, until the
referring court formally approves the recommendation, no final order exists.
And Id. § 201.015 sets out the appeal process by which parties can seek
review before the referring court, thereby triggering the procedure in Id. §
201.013. Under these provisions, the associate judge’s decisions are not self-

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
executing final judgments but must be presented to and adopted by the
actual court of jurisdiction. The record shows that the referring court never
signed any conforming order and that the procedural prerequisites of §
201.015 were not satisfied. Thus, even setting aside the consent issue, the
orders never became the court’s own order as required. In light of §§§
201.007, 201.013, and 201.015, the trial court here plainly exceeded its
statutory authority. The order it issued cannot be reconciled with the Family
Code’s limitations and is thus unauthorized from its inception. C. The orders
are void, the Relator has no adequate appellate remedy, and mandamus
must issue to vacate them. Because the trial court acted beyond its lawful
power, the orders it issued are void, not merely erroneous. As this court has
previously explained, a judgment is 12 void when “the court rendering
judgment had no jurisdiction of the parties or property, no jurisdiction of the
subject matter, no jurisdiction to enter the particular judgment, or no
capacity to act”. PNS Stores, Inc. v. Rivera, 379 S.W.3d 267, 271– 73 (Tex.
2012); Travelers Ins. Co. v. Joachim, 315 S.W.3d 860, 863 (Tex. 2010)
(quoting Browning v. Prostok, 165S.W.3d at 346). Here, the trial court had
no capacity to issue a judgment rendered without authority. Acting outside
the scope of Tex. Fam. Code § 201.007 et seq. means the court lacked
capacity to act in this case. Accordingly, the March 26, 2024, temporary
orders are a nullity and should be declared as such. The Relator emphasizes
that this situation is not akin to the scenario in Burnaman v. Heaton.
Burnaman involved a consent judgment entered when one party’s approval
had lapsed – a defect in the parties’ agreement, not in the court’s authority.
In that context the judgment was held invalid for lack of consent at the
moment of rendition. Id. 240 S.W.2d 288, 291 (Tex. 1951). While those
circumstances apply here, there is not just a question of a party’s consent;
the problem is the court’s own lack of statutory power under the Texas
Family Code. Burnaman and its discussion of consent concern a different
species of defect and do not save an order entered outside statutory
authority. In sum, section 201.007, the legislature has not given associate
judges the power to render judgment outside the context of an agreed order
or default when a timely de novo request was made. 13 The Respondent may
argue that a lack of consent or some procedural irregularity would merely
render the order voidable. But that argument is misplaced. Here the defect
is not a mere procedural error but a fundamental absence of statutory
authorization. Under Texas law, a judgment rendered without any statutory
basis is void and can be attacked at any time. Id. Indeed, this petition for
mandamus arises precisely because the trial court issued an order it had no
power to sign. Thus, the order has no legal effect. CONCLUSION Relator
cannot wait for final appeal to fix the void orders: their continued effect
causes ongoing harm each day and has persisted for thirteen months.
Mandamus must issue now to vacate the void orders. Because the court
acted beyond its statutory authority and rendered a consent judgement
where consent was wanting, its actions constitute a clear abuse of
discretion. And no remedy by appeal is available: void orders are not saved
by an appeal. As the Supreme Court explained in Walker v. Packer, an appeal
is inadequate to correct errors that exceed the court’s jurisdiction. Id., 827
S.W.2d 833, 840 (Tex. 1992) (orig. proceeding). Therefore, because the
Family Code gave the trial court no power to enter the contested orders,
those orders are void ab initio. Relator therefore prays that this Court grant
the writ of mandamus and order the trial court to vacate the unauthorized

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
orders. 14 PRAYER FOR EXPEDITED RELIEF For the foregoing reasons,
Relator respectfully requests that this Honorable Court: i. Grant this Petition
for Writ of Mandamus; ii. Reverse or vacate the Second Court of Appeals’
per curiam denial of mandamus relief issued in Cause No. 02-25-00166-CV
on April 24, 2025; iii. Issue a writ of mandamus directing the 322nd District
Court of Tarrant County, Texas, to vacate the March 26, 2024, temporary
orders entered in Cause No. 322-744263-23 as void for lack of jurisdiction
and authority; and iv. Grant Relator such other and further relief to which he
may be justly entitled. Respectfully submitted, /s/ Charles Dustin Myers
Charles Dustin Myers, Pro Se 6641 Anne Court Watauga, Texas 76148
Email: chuckdustin12@gmail.com Phone: 817-546-3693 PRO-SE RELATOR
15 Certification (TRAP 52.3(j)) Relator, Charles Dustin Myers, certifies that
he has reviewed this petition and concluded that every factual statement in
the petition is supported by competent evidence included in the appendix
and record. /s/ Charles Dustin Myers CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS PRO-SE
RELATOR Certificate of Compliance (TRAP 9.4(i)(3)) Pursuant to Texas Rule
of Appellate Procedure 9.4(i)(3), Relator certifies that this document is 1576
words. /s/ Charles Dustin Myers CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS PRO-SE
RELATOR 16 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE Pursuant to Rule 9.5(d) of the
Texas Rules of Appellate Procedure, this Petition for Mandamus has been
served on all parties of record on May 1st, 2025. Real Party in Interest
Morgan Michelle Myers morganmw02@gmail.com Respondent Hon. Jeff
Kaitcer Associate Judge 322nd District Court, Tarrant County, Texas
LKBaker@tarrantcountytx.gov Tel.: 817-884-1427 200 E. Weatherford St.
4th Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-0227 Counsel for Real Party in Interest
Cooper L. Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com Tel.: (817) 926-6211 Marx,
Altman & Johnson 2905 Lackland Road Fort Worth, TX 76116; Intervenors –
Appellate Level Deterrean Gamble (Bar No. 24062194) Nicole Loya (Bar No.
24082948) Tel: (512) 460-6672 deterrean.gamble@texasattorneygeneral.gov
nicole.loya@oag.texas.gov 5500 East Oltorf Austin, Texas 78741 Matthew
Deal (Bar No. 24087397) Tel: (512) 460-6132
matthew.deal@texasattorneygeneral.gov 314 West 11th Street Austin, Texas
78701-2112 No.____________________-CV IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TEXAS IN RE: CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, RELATOR. On Petition for Writ of
Mandamus to the 322nd Judicial District Court, Tarrant County Cause No.
322-744263-23 On Mandamus Review from Cause No. 02-25-00166-CV in
the Second District Court of Appeals, Fort Worth, Texas RELATOR’S
APPENDIX Respectfully submitted by: Charles Dustin Myers
chuckdustin12@gmail.com Tel.: 817-546-3693 6641 Anne Court Watauga,
Texas 76148 Emergency Relief Requested TABLE OF CONTENTS
AFFIDAVIT OF CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS TAB # ITEM TAB
1 ...................................... The associate judge’s report dated 03.14.2024
TAB 2 ......................................................Temporary orders issued 03.26.2024
TAB 3 ................... No. 02-25-00166-CV per curiam en banc denial 04.24.25
TAB 4 ................................. No. 02-25-00166-CV per curiam denial 04.15.25
TAB 5 ................................................................TEX. FAM. CODE § 201.007
TAB 6 ................................................................ TEX. FAM. CODE § 201.015
TAB 1 322-744263-23 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/15/2024 APP 3.1
Catherine Saenz APP 3.1 APP 3.1 TAB 2 IN THE MATTER OF THE
MARRIAGE OF MORGAN MYERS AND CHARLES MYERS AND IN THE
INTEREST OF CAUSE NO. 322-744263-23 IN THE DISTRICT COURT

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
322ND JUDICIAL DISTRICT MARA MYERS AND CAROLINE MYERS,
CHILDREN § § § § § § § § § TARRANTCOUNTY,TEXAS TEMPORARY ORDERS
1JC On February JI, 2024, the Court heard Petitioner's motion for temporary
orders. Appearances Petitioner, MORGAN MYERS, appeared in person and
through attorney of record, Cooper L. Carter, and announced ready and
signed an Associate Judge's Report regarding Agreed Temporary Orders.
Respondent, CHARLES MYERS, appeared in person and through attorney of
record, Daniel Bacalis, and announced ready and signed an Associate
Judge's Report regarding Agreed Temporary Orders. The parties have
agreed to the terms of this order as evidenced by the signatures below.
Jurisdiction The Court, after examining the record and the agreement of the
parties and hearing the evidence and argument of counsel, finds that all
necessary prerequisites of the law have been legally satisfied and that the
Court has jurisdiction of this case and of all the parties. Children The
following orders are for the safety and welfare and in the best interest of the
322-744263-23 FILED TARRANT COUNTY 3/26/2024 3:19 PM THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.1 APP 2.1 following children: Name: Sex: Birth date:
Home state: Name: Sex: Birth date: Home state: Conservator ship
MARAMYERS Female 7 years Texas CAROLINE MYERS Female 5 years
Texas IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS are
appointed Temporary Joint Managing Conservators of the following children:
MARA MYERS and CAROLINE MYERS IT IS ORDERED that, at all times,
MORGAN MYERS, as a parent temporary joint managing conservator, shall
have the following rights: 1. the right to receive information from any other
conservator of the children concerning the health, education, and welfare of
the children; 2. the right to confer with the other parent to the extent
possible before making a decision concerning the health, education, and
welfare of the children; 3. the right of access to medical, dental,
psychological, and educational records of the children; 4. the right to
consult with a physician, dentist, or psychologist of the children; 5. the right
to consult with school officials concerning the children's welfare and
educational status, including school activities; 6. the right to attend school
activities, including school lunches, performances, and field trips; 7. the
right to be designated on the children's records as a person to be notified in
case of an emergency; 8. the right to consent to medical, dental, and
surgical treatment during an A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.2 APP 2.2 emergency involving an immediate danger
to the health and safety of the children; and 9. the right to manage the
estates of the children to the extent the estates have been created by the
parent's family or by the parent, other than by the community or joint
property of the parent. IT IS ORDERED that, at all times, CHARLES MYERS,
as a parent temporary joint managing conservator, shall have the following
rights: 1. the right to receive information from any other conservator of the
children concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children; 2.
the right to confer with the other parent to the extent possible before
making a decision concerning the health, education, and welfare of the
children; 3. the right of access to medical, dental, psychological, and
educational records of the children; 4. the right to consult with a physician,
dentist, or psychologist of the children; 5. the right to consult with school

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
officials concerning the children's welfare and educational status, including
school activities; 6. field trips; the right to attend school activities, including
school lunches, performances, and 7. the right to be designated on the
children's records as a person to be notified in case of an emergency; 8. the
right to consent to medical, dental, and surgical treatment during an
emergency involving an immediate danger to the health and safety of the
children; and 9. the right to manage the estates of the children to the extent
the estates have been created by the parent's family or by the parent, other
than by the community or joint property of the parent. IT IS ORDERED that,
at all times, MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS, as parent temporary
joint managing conservators, shall each have the following duties: 1. the
duty to inform the other conservator of the children in a timely manner of
significant information concerning the health, education, and welfare of the
children; 2. the duty to inform the other conservator of the children if the
conservator resides with for at least thirty days, marries, or intends to marry
a person who the conservator knows is A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.3 APP 2.3 registered as a sex offender
under chapter 62 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure or is currently
charged with an offense for which on conviction the person would be
required to register under that chapter. IT IS ORDERED that notice of this
information shall be provided to the other conservator of the children as
soon as practicable, but not later than the fortieth day after the date the
conservator of the children begins to reside with the person or on the tenth
day after the date the marriage occurs, as appropriate. IT IS ORDERED that
the notice must include a description of the offense that is the basis of the
person's requirement to register as a sex offender or of the offense with
which the person is charged. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR COMMITS AN
OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF THE
CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE; 3. the duty to inform the
other conservator of the children if the conservator establishes a residence
with a person who the conservator knows is the subject of a final protective
order sought by an individual other than the conservator that is in effect on
the date the residence with the person is established. IT IS ORDERED that
notice of this information shall be provided to the other conservator of the
children as soon as practicable, but not later than the thirtieth day after the
date the conservator establishes residence with the person who is the
subject of the final protective order. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR
COMMITS AN OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF
THE CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE; 4. the duty to
inform the other conservator of the children if the conservator resides with,
or allows unsupervised access to a child by, a person who is the subject of a
final protective order sought by the conservator after the expiration of sixty-
day period following the date the final protective order is issued. IT IS
ORDERED that notice of this information shall be provided to the other
conservator of the children as soon as practicable, but not later than the
ninetieth day after the date the final protective order was issued. WARNING:
A CONSERVATOR COMMITS AN OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C
MISDEMEANOR IF THE CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS
NOTICE; and 5. the duty to inform the other conservator of the children if
the conservator is the subject of a final protective order issued after the date
of the order establishing conservatorship. IT IS ORDERED that notice of this

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
information shall be provided to the other conservator of the children as
soon as practicable, but not later than the thirtieth day after the date the
final protective order was issued. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR COMMITS
AN OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF THE
CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE. IT IS ORDERED that,
during her periods of possession, MORGAN MYERS, as parent temporary
joint managing conservator, shall have the following rights-and duties: 1. the
duty of care, control, protection, and reasonable discipline of the children; 2.
the duty to support the children, including providing the children with
clothing, food, shelter, and medical and dental care not involving an invasive
procedure; A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP
2.4 APP 2.4 3. the right to consent for the children to medical and dental
care not involving an invasive procedure; and 4. the right to direct the moral
and religious training of the children. IT IS ORDERED that, during his
periods of possession, CHARLES MYERS, as parent temporary joint
managing conservator, shall have the following rights and duties: 1. the duty
of care, control, protection, and reasonable discipline of the children; 2. the
duty to support the children, including providing the children with clothing,
food, shelter, and medical and dental care not involving an invasive
procedure; 3. the right to consent for the children to medical and dental
care not involving an invasive procedure; and 4. the right to direct the moral
and religious training of the children. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN
MYERS, as a parent temporary joint managmg conservator, shall have the
following rights and duty: 1. the independent right to consent to medical,
dental, and surgical treatment involving invasive procedures; 2. the
independent right to consent to psychiatric and psychological treatment of
the children; 3. the independent right to receive and give receipt for
periodic payments for the support of the children and to hold or disburse
these funds for the benefit of the children; 4. the independent right to
represent the children in legal action and to make other decisions of
substantial legal significance concerning the children; 5. the independent
right to consent to marriage and to enlistment in the armed forces of the
United States; 6. the independent right to make decisions concerning the
children's education; 7. except as provided by section 264.0111 of the Texas
Family Code, the independent right to the services and earnings of the
children; 8. except when a guardian of the children's estates or a guardian
or attorney ad litem has been appointed for the children, the independent
right to act as an agent of the children in A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.5 APP 2.5 relation to the children's
estates if the children's action is required by a state, the United States, or a
foreign government; 9. the right, subject to the agreement of the other
conservator, to apply for passports for the children, to renew the children's
passports, and to maintain possession of the children's passports; and 10.
the independent duty to manage the estates of the children to the extent the
estates have been created by the community or joint property of the parent.
IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS, as a parent temporary joint
managmg conservator, shall have the following rights and duty: 1. the
independent right to consent to medical, dental, and surgical treatment
involving invasive procedures; 2. the independent right to consent to
psychiatric and psychological treatment of the children; 3. the independent

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
right to receive and give receipt for periodic payments for the support of the
children and to hold or disburse these funds for the benefit of the children;
4. the independent right to represent the children in legal action and to
make other decisions of substantial legal significance concerning the
children; 5. the independent right to consent to marriage and to enlistment
in the armed forces of the United States; 6. the independent right to make
decisions concerning the children's education; 7. except as provided by
section 264.0111 of the Texas Family Code, the independent right to the
services and earnings of the children; 8. except when a guardian of the
children's estates or a guardian or attorney ad litem has been appointed for
the children, the independent right to act as an agent of the children in
relation to the children's estates if the children's action is required by a
state, the United States, or a foreign government; 9. the right, subject to the
agreement of the other conservator, to apply for passports for the children,
to renew the children's passports, and to maintain possession of the
children's passports; and 10. the independent duty to manage the estates of
the children to the extent the estates have been created by the community
or joint property of the parent. A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.6 APP 2.6 Notwithstanding any provision in this
order to the contrary, IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall have the
exclusive right to enroll the children in school. Each conservator, during that
conservator's period of possession, is ORDERED to ensure the children's
attendance in the schools in which MORGAN MYERS has enrolled the
children. The Court finds that, in accordance with section 153.001 of the
Texas Family Code, it is the public policy of Texas to assure that children will
have frequent and continuing contact with parents who have shown the
ability to act in the best interest of the child; to provide a safe, stable, and
nonviolent environment for the child; and to encourage parents to share in
the rights and duties of raising their child after the parents have separated
or dissolved their marriage. IT IS ORDERED that the primary residence of
the children shall be within Tarrant County, Texas, 1 and counties
contiguous to Tarrant County, Texas, and the parties shall not remove the
children from Tarrant County, Texas, and counties contiguous to Tarrant
County, Texas for the purpose of changing the primary residence of the
children until this geographic restriction is modified by further order of the
court of continuing jurisdiction or by a written agreement that is signed by
the parties and filed with that court. Except as expressly provided otherwise
in this temporary order, IT IS ORDERED that all information of which a
conservator is required to notify the other conservator and all documents
and information that a conservator is required to provide to the other
conservator shall be sent in the following manner: a. delivery to the
recipient at the recipient's electronic mail address as follows or to such
other electronic mail address subsequently designated by the recipient:
MORGAN MYERS morganm202@gmail.com A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.7 APP 2.7 CHARLES MYERS chuckdustic
12@gmail.com and in the event of any change in a recipient's electronic mail
address, that recipient is ORDERED to notify the other recipient of such
change in writing within twenty-four hours after the change. If a party
applies for a passport for the children, that party, is ORDERED to notify the
other party of that fact no later than 10 days after the application. IT IS

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
ORDERED that if a parent's consent is required for the issuance or renewal
of a passport, that parent shall provide that consent in writing no later than
ten days after receipt of the consent documents, unless the parent has good
cause for withholding that consent. Possession and Access IT IS ORDERED
that nothing in this order shall supercede any term of any protective order
or condition of bond, probation, or parole. 1. Standard Possession Order IT
IS ORDERED that each conservator shall comply with all terms and
conditions of this Standard Possession Order. IT IS ORDERED that this
Standard Possession Order is effective immediately and applies to all
periods of possession occurring on and after the date the Court signs this
Standard Possession Order. IT IS, THEREFORE, ORDERED: (a) Definitions
1. In this Standard Possession Order "school" means the elementary or
secondary school in which the child is enrolled or, if the child is not enrolled
in an elementary or secondary school, the public school district in which the
child primarily resides. 2. In this Standard Possession Order "child" includes
each child, whether one or more, who is a subject of this suit while that child
is under the age of eighteen years and not otherwise emancipated. (b)
Mutual Agreement or Specified Terms for Possession IT IS ORDERED that
the conservators shall have possession of the child at times mutually agreed
to in advance by the parties, and, in the absence of A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.8 APP 2.8 mutual
agreement, it is ORDERED that the conservators shall have possession of
the child under the specified terms set out in this Standard Possession
Order. (c) When Parents Reside 50 Miles or Less Apart Except as otherwise
expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, when CHARLES
MYERS resides 50 miles or less from the primary residence of the child,
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as follows:
1. Weekends - On weekends that occur during the regular school term,
beginning at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed, on the first,
third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at the time the child's
school resumes after the weekend. On weekends that do not occur during
the regular school term, beginning at 6:00 P.M., on the first, third, and fifth
Friday of each month and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the following Sunday. 2.
Weekend Possession Extended by a Holiday - Except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student holiday or a teacher in-
service day that falls on a Friday during the regular school term, as
determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a federal, state,
or local holiday that falls on a Friday during the summer months when
school is not in session, that weekend period of possession shall begin at the
time the child's school is regularly dismissed on the Thursday immediately
preceding the student holiday or teacher in-service day and 6:00 p.m. on the
Thursday immediately preceding the federal, state, or local holiday during
the summer months. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES
MYERS ends on or is immediately followed by a student holiday or a teacher
in-service day that falls on a Monday during the regular school term, as
determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a federal, state,
or local holiday that falls on a Monday during the summer months when
school is not in session, that weekend period of possession shall end at 8:00
a.m. on Tuesday. 3. Thursdays - On Thursday of each week during the

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
regular school term, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly
dismissed and ending at the time the child's school resumes on Friday. 4.
Spring Vacation in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered A CERTIFIED
COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.9 APP 2.9 years, beginning
at the time the child's school is dismissed and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day
before school resumes after that vacation. 5. Extended Summer Possession
by CHARLES MYERS - With Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS
gives MORGAN MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an
extended period or periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES
MYERS shall have possession of the child for thirty days beginning no
earlier than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the summer
vacation and ending no later than seven days before school resumes at the
end of the summer vacation in that year, to be exercised in no more than two
separate periods of at least seven consecutive days each, as specified in the
written notice. These periods of possession shall begin and end at 6:00 P.M.
on each applicable day. Without Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES
MYERS does not give MORGAN MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year
specifying an extended period or periods of summer possession for that year,
CHARLES MYERS shall have possession of the child for thirty consecutive
days in that year beginning at 6:00 P.M. on July 1 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on
July 31. Notwithstanding the Thursday periods of possession during the
regular school term and the weekend periods of possession ORDERED for
CHARLES MYERS, it is expressly ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall
have a superior right of possession of the child as follows: 1. Spring Vacation
in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years, beginning at the time the
child's school is dismissed and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school
resumes after that vacation. 2. Summer Weekend Possession by MORGAN
MYERS - If MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by
April 15 of a year, MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the child on
any one weekend beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday and ending at 6:00 P.M.
on the following Sunday during any one period of the extended summer
possession by CHARLES MYERS in that year, provided that MORGAN
MYERS picks up the child from CHARLES MYERS and returns the child to
that same place and that the weekend so designated does not interfere with
Father's Day possession. Not later than the fifteenth day before the Friday
that begins the designated weekend, CHARLES MYERS must give MORGAN
MYERS written notice of the location at which MORGAN MYERS is to pick
up and return the child. 3. Extended Summer Possession by MORGAN
MYERS - If MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by
April 15 of a year or gives CHARLES MYERS fourteen days' written notice
on or after April 16 of a year, MORGAN MYERS may designate one weekend
beginning no A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP
2.10 APP 2.10 earlier than the day after the child's school is dismissed for
the summer vacation and ending no later than seven days before school
resumes at the end of the summer vacation, during which an otherwise
scheduled weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS shall not take
place in that year, provided that the weekend so designated does not
interfere with CHARLES MYERS's period or periods of extended summer
possession or with Father's Day possession. Notwithstanding the weekend
and Thursday periods of possession of CHARLES MYERS, MORGAN MYERS

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
and CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as
follows: 1. Christmas Holidays in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered
years, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child
beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas
school vacation and ending at noon on December 28, and MORGAN MYERS
shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at noon on
December 28 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes
after that Christmas school vacation. 2. Christmas Holidays in Odd-
Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years, MORGAN MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child beginning at the time the child's school is
dismissed for the Christmas school vacation and ending at noon on
December 28, and CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of
the child beginning at noon on December 28 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the
day before school resumes after that Christmas school vacation. 3.
Thanksgiving in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years, CHARLES
MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at the time
the child's school is dismissed before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00 P.M.
on the Sunday following Thanksgiving. 4. Thanksgiving in Even-Numbered
Years - In even-numbered years, MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to
possession of the child beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed
before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the Sunday following
Thanksgiving. 5. Child's Birthday - If a parent is not otherwise entitled under
this Standard Possession Order to present possession of a child on the
child's birthday, that parent shall have possession of the child and the child's
minor siblings beginning at 6:00 P.M. and ending at 8:00 P.M. on that day,
provided that that parent picks up the child from the other parent's
residence and returns the child to that same place. 6. Father's Day -
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child each year,
beginning at 6:00 P .M. on the Friday preceding A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.11 APP 2.11 Father's Day
and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the Monday after Father's Day, provided that if
CHARLES MYERS is not otherwise entitled under this Standard Possession
Order to present possession of the child, he shall pick up the child from
MORGAN MYERS's residence and return the child to that same place. 7.
Mother's Day - MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the
child each year, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly
dismissed on the Friday preceding Mother's Day and ending at the time the
child's school resumes after Mother's Day, provided that if MORGAN MYERS
is not otherwise entitled under this Standard Possession Order to present
possession of the child, she shall pick up the child from CHARLES MYERS's
residence and return the child to that same place. ( d) When Parents Reside
More than 50 Miles but 100 Miles or Less Apart Except as otherwise
expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, when CHARLES
MYERS resides more than 50 Miles but 100 miles or less from the primary
residence of the child, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession
of the child as follows: 1. Weekends - On weekends that occur during the
regular school term, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly
dismissed, on the first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at
the time the child's school resumes after the weekend. On weekends that do
not occur during the regular school term, beginning at 6:00 P.M., on the
first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
following Sunday. 2. Weekend Possession Extended by a HolidayExcept as
otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, if a
weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student
holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on a Friday during the regular
school term, as determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a
federal, state, or local holiday that falls on a Friday during the summer
months when school is not in session, that weekend period of possession
shall begin at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed on the
Thursday immediately preceding the student holiday or teacher in-service
day and 6:00 p.m. on the Thursday immediately preceding the federal, state,
or local holiday during the summer months. Except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is immediately followed by a
student holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.12 APP 2.12 a Monday
during the regular school term, as determined by the school in which the
child is enrolled, that weekend period of possession shall end at 8:00 a.m. on
Tuesday. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession
Order, if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a federal, state, or local holiday that falls on a
Monday during the summer months when school is not in session, that
weekend period of possession shall end at 6:00 P.M. on that Monday. 3.
Thursdays - On Thursday of each week during the regular school term,
beginning at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed and ending at
the time the child's school resumes on Friday. 4. Spring Vacation in Even-
Numbered Years - In even-numbered years, beginning at the time the child's
school is dismissed for the school's spring vacation and ending at 6:00 P.M.
on the day before school resumes after that vacation. 5. Extended Summer
Possession by CHARLES MYERS - With Written Notice by April 1 - If
CHARLES MYERS gives MORGAN MYERS written notice by April 1 of a
year specifying an extended period or periods of summer possession for that
year, CHARLES MYERS shall have possession of the child for thirty days
beginning no earlier than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the
summer vacation and ending no later than seven days before school resumes
at the end of the summer vacation in that year, to be exercised in no more
than two separate periods of at least seven consecutive days each, as
specified in the written notice. These periods of possession shall begin and
end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day. Without Written Notice by April 1 -
If CHARLES MYERS does not give MORGAN MYERS written notice by April
1 of a year specifying an extended period or periods of summer possession
for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have possession of the child for thirty
consecutive days in that year beginning at 6:00 P.M. on July 1 and ending at
6:00 P.M. on July 31. Notwithstanding the Thursday periods of possession
during the regular school term and the weekend periods of possession
ORDERED for CHARLES MYERS, it is expressly ORDERED that MORGAN
MYERS shall have a superior right of possession of the child as follows: 1.
Spring Vacation in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years, beginning
at the time the child's school is dismissed for the school's spring vacation
and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that
vacation. A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
2.13 APP 2.13 2. Summer Weekend Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If
MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a
year, MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the child on any one
weekend beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the
following Sunday during any one period of the extended summer possession
by CHARLES MYERS in that year, provided that MORGAN MYERS picks up
the child from CHARLES MYERS and returns the child to that same place
and that the weekend so designated does not interfere with Father's Day
possession. Not later than the fifteenth day before the Friday that begins the
designated weekend, CHARLES MYERS must give MORGAN MYERS written
notice of the location at which MORGAN MYERS is to pick up and return the
child. 3. Extended Summer Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN
MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a year or gives
CHARLES MYERS fourteen days' written notice on or after April 16 of a
year, MORGAN MYERS may designate one weekend beginning no earlier
than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation
and ending no later than seven days before school resumes at the end of the
summer vacation, during which an otherwise scheduled weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS shall not take place in that year, provided
that the weekend so designated does not interfere with CHARLES MYERS's
period or periods of extended summer possession or with Father's Day
possession. (e) Parents Who Reside More Than 100 Miles Apart Except as
otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, when
CHARLES MYERS resides more than 100 miles from the residence of the
child, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as
follows: 1. Weekends - Unless CHARLES MYERS elects the alternative
period of weekend possession described in the next paragraph, CHARLES
MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child on weekends
beginning at 6:00 P.M., on the first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and
ending at 6:00 P.M. on the following Sunday. Alternate Weekend Possession -
In lieu of the weekend possession described in the foregoing paragraph,
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child not more
than one weekend per month of CHARLES MYERS's choice beginning at
6:00 P.M. on the day school recesses for the weekend and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the day before school resumes after the weekend. CHARLES MYERS
may elect an option for this alternative period of weekend possession by
giving written notice to MORGAN MYERS within ninety days after the
parties begin to reside more than 100 miles apart. If CHARLES MYERS
makes this election, CHARLES MYERS shall give MORGAN MYERS A
CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.14
APP 2.14 fourteen days' written or telephonic notice preceding a designated
weekend. The weekends chosen shall not conflict with the provisions
regarding Christmas, Thanksgiving, the child's birthday, and Mother's Day
possession below. 2. Weekend Possession Extended by a Holiday - Except as
otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, if a
weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student
holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on a Friday during the regular
school term, as determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a
federal, state, or local holiday during the summer months when school is not
in session, that weekend period of possession shall begin at the time the
child's school is regularly dismissed on the Thursday immediately preceding

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
the student holiday or teacher in-service day and 6:00 p.m. on the Thursday
immediately preceding the federal, state, or local holiday during the summer
months Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession
Order, if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a student holiday or a teacher in-service day that
falls on a Monday during the regular school term, as determined by the
school in which the child is enrolled, that weekend period of possession shall
end at 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES
MYERS ends on or is immediately followed by a federal, state, or local
holiday that falls on a Monday during the summer months when school is
not in session, that weekend period of possession shall end at 6:00 P.M. on
that Monday. 3. Spring Vacation in All Years - Every year, beginning at 6:00
P.M. on the day the child is dismissed from school for the school's spring
vacation and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that
vacation. 4. Extended Summer Possession by CHARLES MYERS - With
Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS gives MORGAN MYERS
written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended period or periods
of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have possession
of the child for forty-two days beginning no earlier than the day after the
child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and ending no later than
seven days before school resumes at the end of the summer vacation in that
year, to be exercised in no more than two separate periods of at least seven
consecutive days each, as specified in the written notice. These periods of
possession shall begin and end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day. Without
Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS does not give A CERTIFIED
COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.15 APP 2.15 MORGAN
MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended period or
periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have
possession of the child for forty-two consecutive days beginning at 6:00 P.M.
on June 15 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on July 27 of that year. Notwithstanding
the weekend periods of possession ORDERED for CHARLES MYERS, it is
expressly ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall have a superior right of
possession of the child as follows: 1. Summer Weekend Possession by
MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written
notice by April 15 of a year, MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the
child on any one weekend beginning at 6:00 P .M. on Friday and ending at
6:00 P .M. on the following Sunday during any one period of possession by
CHARLES MYERS during CHARLES MYERS's extended summer possession
in that year, provided that if a period of possession by CHARLES MYERS in
that year exceeds thirty days, MORGAN MYERS may have possession of the
child under the terms of this provision on any two nonconsecutive weekends
during that period and provided that MORGAN MYERS picks up the child
from CHARLES MYERS and returns the child to that same place and that
the weekend so designated does not interfere with Father's Day possession.
2. Extended Summer Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN MYERS
gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a year, MORGAN
MYERS may designate twenty-one days beginning no earlier than the day
after the child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and ending no
later than seven days before school resumes at the end of the summer
vacation in that year, to be exercised in no more than two separate periods

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
of at least seven consecutive days each, during which CHARLES MYERS
shall not have possession of the child, provided that the period or periods so
designated do not interfere with CHARLES MYERS's period or periods of
extended summer possession or with Father's Day possession. These periods
of possession shall begin and end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day. (t)
Holidays Notwithstanding the weekend and Thursday periods of possession
of CHARLES MYERS, except when CHARLES MYERS resides fifty miles or
less from the primary residence of the child, MORGAN MYERS and
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as follows:
1. Christmas Holidays in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered years,
CHARLES MYERS shall_ have the right to possession of the child beginning
at the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas school vacation
and ending at noon on December 28, and MORGAN MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child beginning at noon on December 28 and
ending A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP
2.16 APP 2.16 at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that
Christmas school vacation. 2. Christmas Holidays in Odd-Numbered Years -
In odd-numbered years, MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession
of the child beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the
Christmas school vacation and ending at noon on December 28, and
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child beginning
at noon on December 28 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school
resumes after that Christmas school vacation. 3. Thanksgiving in Odd-
Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years, CHARLES MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child beginning at the time the child's school is
dismissed before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the Sunday
following Thanksgiving. 4. Thanksgiving in Even-Numbered Years - In even-
numbered years, MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the
child beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed before
Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the Sunday following Thanksgiving.
5. Child's Birthday - If a parent is not otherwise entitled under this Standard
Possession Order to present possession of a child on the child's birthday,
that parent shall have possession of the child and the child's minor siblings
beginning at 6:00 P.M. and ending at 8:00 P.M. on that day, provided that
that parent picks up the child from the other parent's residence and returns
the child to that same place. 6. Father's Day - CHARLES MYERS shall have
the right to possession of the child each year, beginning at 6:00 P.M. on the
Friday preceding Father's Day and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the Monday after
Father's Day, provided that if CHARLES MYERS is not otherwise entitled
under this Standard Possession Order to present possession of the child, he
shall pick up the child from MORGAN MYERS's residence and return the
child to that same place. 7. Mother's Day - MORGAN MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child each year, beginning at the time the child's
school is regularly dismissed on the Friday preceding Mother's Day and
ending at the time the child's school resumes after Mother's Day, provided
that if MORGAN MYERS is not otherwise entitled under this Standard
Possession Order to present possession of the child, she shall pick up the
child from CHARLES MYERS's residence and return the child to that same
place. (g) Undesignated Periods of Possession MORGAN MYERS shall have
the right of possession of the child at all A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.17 APP 2.17 other times not specifically
designated in this Standard Possession Order for CHARLES MYERS. (h)
General Terms and Conditions Except as otherwise expressly provided in
this Standard Possession Order, the terms and conditions of possession of
the child that apply regardless of the distance between the residence of a
parent and the child are as follows: 1. Surrender of Child by MORGAN
MYERS - MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to CHARLES
MYERS at the beginning of each period of CHARLES MYERS's possession at
the residence of MORGAN MYERS. If a period of possession by CHARLES
MYERS begins at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed,
MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to CHARLES MYERS
at the beginning of each such period of possession at the school in which the
child is enrolled. If the child is not physically attending school, CHARLES
MYERS shall pick up the child at the residence of MORGAN MYERS at 6:00
P.M., and MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to
CHARLES MYERS at the residence of MORGAN MYERS at 6:00 P.M. under
these circumstances. 2. Surrender of Child by CHARLES MYERS - CHARLES
MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to MORGAN MYERS at the
residence of CHARLES MYERS at the end of each period of possession. If a
period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends at the time the child's school
resumes, CHARLES MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to MORGAN
MYERS at the end of each such period of possession at the school in which
the child is enrolled or, if the child is not physically attending school, at the
residence of MORGAN MYERS at 6:00 P.M. 3. Surrender of Child by
CHARLES MYERS - CHARLES MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child
to MORGAN MYERS, if the child is in CHARLES MYERS's possession or
subject to CHARLES MYERS's control, at the beginning of each period of
MORGAN MYERS's exclusive periods of possession, at the place designated
in this Standard Possession Order. 4. Return of Child by MORGAN MYERS -
MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to return the child to CHARLES MYERS, if
CHARLES MYERS is entitled to possession of the child, at the end of each of
MORGAN MYERS's exclusive periods of possession, at the place designated
in this Standard Possession Order. 5. Personal Effects - Each conservator is
ORDERED to return with A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz APP 2.18 APP 2.18 the child the personal effects that the child
brought at the beginning of the period of possession. 6. Designation of
Competent Adult - Each conservator may designate any competent adult to
pick up and return the child, as applicable. IT IS ORDERED that a
conservator or a designated competent adult be present when the child is
picked up or returned. 7. Inability to Exercise Possession - Each conservator
is ORDERED to give notice to the person in possession of the child on each
occasion that the conservator will be unable to exercise that conservator's
right of possession for any specified period. 8. Written Notice - Written
notice, including notice provided by electronic mail or facsimile or as
otherwise authorized in this order, shall be deemed to have been timely
made if received or, if applicable, postmarked before or at the time that
notice is due. Each conservator is ORDERED to notify the other conservator
of any change in the conservator's electronic mail address or facsimile
number within twenty-four hours after the change. 9. Notice to School and
MORGAN MYERS - If CHARLES MYERS's time of possession of the child
ends at the time school resumes and for any reason the child is not or will

=== PAGE 18 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
not be returned to school, CHARLES MYERS shall immediately notify the
school and MORGAN MYERS that the child will not be or has not been
returned to school. This concludes the Standard Possession Order. 2.
Duration The periods of possession ordered above apply to each child the
subject of this suit while that child is under the age of eighteen years and
not otherwise emancipated. Child Support IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES
MYERS pay to MORGAN MYERS for the support of MARA MYERS and
CAROLINE MYERS nine hundred seventy-three dollars and nineteen cents
($973.19) per month, with the first payment being due and payable on April
1, 2024 and a like payment being due and payable on the first day of each
month thereafter until further order of this Court. A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.19 APP 2.19 Withholding
from Earnings IT IS ORDERED that any employer of CHARLES MYERS shall
be ordered to withhold the child support payments ordered in this order
from the disposable earnings of CHARLES MYERS for the support of MARA
MYERS and CAROLINE MYERS. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that all amounts
withheld from the disposable earnings of CHARLES MYERS by the employer
and paid in accordance with the order to that employer shall constitute a
credit against the child support obligation. Payment of the full amount of
child support ordered paid by this order through the means of withholding
from earnings shall discharge the child support obligation. If the amount
withheld from earnings and credited against the child support obligation is
less than 100 percent of the amount ordered to be paid by this order, the
balance due remains an obligation of CHARLES MYERS, and it is hereby
ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS pay the balance due directly as specified
below. On this date the Court signed an Income Withholding for Support.
Payment IT IS ORDERED that all payments shall be made through the state
disbursement unit at Texas Child Support Disbursement Unit, P.O. Box
659791, San Antonio, Texas 78265-9791, and thereafter promptly remitted
to MORGAN MYERS for the support of the children. IT IS ORDERED that all
payments shall be made payable to the Office of the Attorney General and
include the ten-digit Office of the Attorney General case number (if
available), the cause number of this suit, CHARLES MYERS's name as the
name of the noncustodial parent (NCP), and MORGAN MYERS's name as the
name of the custodial parent (CP). Payment options are found on the Office
of the Attorney General's website at www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/cs/
paymentoptions-and-types. A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.20 APP 2.20 IT IS ORDERED that each party shall
pay, when due, all fees charged to that party by the state disbursement unit
and any other agency statutorily authorized to charge a fee. Change of
Employment IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS shall notify
this Court and MORGAN MYERS by U.S. certified mail, return receipt
requested, of any change of address and of any termination of employment.
This notice shall be given no later than seven days after the change of
address or the termination of employment. This notice or a subsequent
notice shall also provide the current address of CHARLES MYERS and the
name and address of his current employer, whenever that information
becomes available. Clerk's Duties IT IS ORDERED that, on the request of a
prosecuting attorney, the title IV-D agency, the friend of the Court, a
domestic relations office, MORGAN MYERS, CHARLES MYERS, or an

=== PAGE 19 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
attorney representing MORGAN MYERS or CHARLES MYERS, the clerk of
this Court shall cause a certified copy of the Income Withholding for Support
to be delivered to any employer. Medical and Dental Support 1. IT IS
ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS shall each provide
additional child support for each child as set out in this order for as long as
the Court may order MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS to provide
support for the child under sections 154.001 and 154.002 of the Texas
Family Code. Beginning on the day MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES
MYERS's actual or potential obligation to support a child under sections
154.001 and 154.002 of the Family Code terminates, IT IS ORDERED that
MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS are discharged from these
obligations with respect to that child, except for any failure by a parent to
fully comply with these obligations before that date. A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.21 APP 2.21 IT IS
FURTHER ORDERED that the additional child support payments for costs of
health and dental insurance ordered below are payable through the state
disbursement unit or as directed below and subject to the provisions for
withholding from earnings provided above for other child support payments.
2. Definitions - "Health Insurance" means insurance coverage that provides
basic health-care services, including usual physician services, office visits,
hospitalization, and laboratory, X-ray, and emergency services, that may be
provided through a health maintenance organization or other private or
public organization, other than medical assistance under chapter 32 of the
Texas Human Resources Code. "Reasonable cost" means the total cost of
health insurance coverage for all children for which MORGAN MYERS is
responsible under a medical support order that does not exceed 9 percent of
MORGAN MYERS's annual resources, as described by section 154.062(b) of
the Texas Family Code. "Health-care expenses" include, without limitation,
medical, surgical, prescription drug, mental health-care services, dental, eye
care, ophthalmological, and orthodontic charges but do not include expenses
for travel to and from the provider or for nonprescription medication.
"Health-care expenses that are not reimbursed by
insurance" ("unreimbursed expenses") include related copayments and
deductibles. 3. Findings on Availability of Health Insurance - Having
considered the cost, accessibility, and quality of health insurance coverage
available to the parties, the Court finds: IT IS FURTHER FOUND that the
following orders regarding health-care coverage are in the best interest of
the children. A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP
2.22 APP 2.22 4. Provision of Health-Care Coverage - As Petitioner's child
support, MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to obtain Medicaid for the children
the subject of this suit, and then maintain health insurance for the children
as long as child support is payable for that child. MORGAN MYERS is
ORDERED - a. to provide to each conservator of the children the following
information no later than the thirtieth day after she received Medicaid for
the children: a. MORGA MYERS' Social Security number; b. Proof that
health insurance has been provided for the children; c. The following
information and documents: 1. The name of the health insurance carrier; 11.
The number of the policy; 111. A copy of the policy; 1v. A schedule of
benefits; v. A health insurance membership card; v1. Claim forms; and VII.
Any other information necessary to submit a claim; and d. To provide each

=== PAGE 20 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
conservator of the children with a copy of any renewals or changes to the
health insurance coverage of the children and any additional information
regarding health insurance coverage of the children no later than the
fifteenth day after MORGAN MYERS receives or is provided with the
renewal, change, or additional information; e. To notify each conservator of
the children of any termination or A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.23 APP 2.23 lapse of health insurance coverage of
the children no later than the fifteenth day after the date of the termination
or lapse; f. After termination or lapse of health insurance coverage, to notify
each conservator of the children of the availability to MORGAN MYERS of
additional health insurance for the children no later than the fifteenth day
after the date the insurance becomes available; g. After termination or lapse
of health insurance coverage, to enroll the children in a health insurance
plan that is available to MORGAN MYERS at a reasonable cost at the next
available enrollment period. Pursuant to section 1504.051 of the Texas
Insurance Code, IT IS ORDERED that if MORGAN MYERS is eligible for
dependent health coverage but fails to apply to obtain coverage for the
children, the insurer shall enroll the children on application of CHARLES
MYERS or others authorized by law. 5. Allocation ofUnreimbursed Expenses
- The conservator who incurs a health-care expense on behalf of a child is
ORDERED to provide to the other conservator receipts, bills, statements, or
explanations of benefits showing the uninsured portion of the health-care
expenses within thirty days after the incurring conservator receives them.
The nonincurring conservator is ORDERED to pay the non-incurring
conservator's percentage of the unreimbursed portion of the health-care
expenses either by paying the health-care provider directly or by
reimbursing the incurring conservator for any advance payment exceeding
the incurring conservator's percentage of the unreimbursed portion of the
health-care expenses within thirty days after the nonincurring conservator
receives receipts, bills, statements, or explanations of benefits showing the
unreimbursed portion of the A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.24 APP 2.24 health-care expense. For the Court to
hold the nonincurring conservator in civil or criminal contempt for failing to
pay the nonincurring conservator's percentage of the unreimbursed portion
of a healthcare expense, the incurring conservator must prove beyond a
reasonable doubt that the nonincurring conservator personally received
receipts, bills, statements, or explanations of benefits reflecting the
unreimbursed portion of the health-care expense no later than thirty days
after the incurring conservator received them. Even if the incurring
conservator fails to meet that burden of proof, the Court may award the
incurring conservator a judgment in the nature of child support against the
nonincurring conservator in the amount of the unreimbursed portion of the
heath-care expense the nonincurring conservator was ordered but fail to
pay. 6. WARNING - A PARENT ORDERED TO PROVIDE HEALTH
INSURANCE OR DENTAL INSURANCE OR TO PAY THE OTHER PARENT
ADDITIONAL CHILD SUPPORT FOR THE COST OF HEALTH INSURANCE
OR DENTAL INSURANCE WHO FAILS TO DO SO IS LIABLE FOR
NECESSARY MEDICAL EXPENSES OF THE CHILDREN, WITHOUT
REGARD TO WHETHER THE EXPENSES WOULD HA VE BEEN PAID IF
HEALTH INSURANCE OR DENTAL INSURANCE HAD BEEN PROVIDED,

=== PAGE 21 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
AND FOR THE COST OF HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUMS, DENTAL
INSURANCE PREMIUMS, OR CONTRIBUTIONS, IF ANY, PAID ON BEHALF
OF THE CHILDREN. 7. Notice to Employer - On this date a Medical Support
Notice was signed by the Court. For the purpose of section I 169 of title 29
of the United States Code, the conservator not carrying the health or dental
insurance policy is designated the custodial parent and alternate recipient's
representative. A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz APP 2.25 APP 2.25 No Termination of Orders on Death ofObligee An
obligation to pay child support under this order does not terminate on the
death of MORGAN MYERS but continues as an obligation to MARA MYERS
and CAROLINE MYERS. Other Child Related Provisions Required Notices
NOTICE TO ANY PEACE OFFICER OF THE STATE OF TEXAS: YOU MAY
USE REASONABLE EFFORTS TO ENFORCE THE TERMS OF CHILD
CUSTODY SPECIFIED IN THIS ORDER. A PEACE OFFICER WHO RELIES
ON THE TERMS OF A COURT ORDER AND THE OFFICER'S AGENCY ARE
ENTITLED TO THE APPLICABLE IMMUNITY AGAINST ANY CLAIM, CIVIL
OR OTHERWISE, REGARDING THE OFFICER'S GOOD FAITH ACTS
PERFORMED IN THE SCOPE OF THE OFFICER'S DUTIES IN ENFORCING
THE TERMS OF THE ORDER THAT RELATE TO CHILD CUSTODY. ANY
PERSON WHO KNOWINGLY PRESENTS FOR ENFORCEMENT AN ORDER
THAT IS INVALID OR NO LONGER IN EFFECT COMMITS AN OFFENSE
THAT MAY BE PUNISHABLE BY CONFINEMENT IN JAIL FOR AS LONG AS
TWO YEARS AND A FINE OF AS MUCH AS $10,000. THE COURT MAY
MODIFY THIS ORDER THAT PROVIDES FOR THE SUPPORT OF A CHILD,
IF: (1) THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CHILD OR A PERSON AFFECTED
BY THE ORDER HAVE MATERIALLY AND SUBSTANTIALLY CHANGED; OR
(2) IT HAS BEEN THREE YEARS SINCE THE ORDER WAS RENDERED OR
LAST MODIFIED AND THE MONTHLY AMOUNT OF THE CHILD SUPPORT
AWARD A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP
2.26 APP 2.26 UNDER THE ORDER DIFFERS BY EITHER 20 PERCENT OR
$100 FROM THE AMOUNT THAT WOULD BE AWARDED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE CHILD SUPPORT GUIDELINES. Warnings to Parties WARNINGS
TO PARTIES: FAILURE TO OBEY A COURT ORDER FOR CHILD SUPPORT
OR FOR POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A CHILD MAY RESULT IN
FURTHER LITIGATION TO ENFORCE THE ORDER, INCLUDING
CONTEMPT OF COURT. A FINDING OF CONTEMPT MAY BE PUNISHED
BY CONFINEMENT IN JAIL FOR UP TO SIX MONTHS, A FINE OF UP TO
$500 FOR EACH VIOLATION, AND A MONEY JUDGMENT FOR PAYMENT
OF ATTORNEY'S FEES AND COURT COSTS. FAILURE OF A PARTY TO
MAKE A CHILD SUPPORT PAYMENT TO THE PLACE AND IN THE
MANNER REQUIRED BY A COURT ORDER MAY RESULT IN THE PARTY'S
NOT RECEIVING CREDIT FOR MAKING THE PAYMENT. FAILURE OF A
PARTY TO PAY CHILD SUPPORT DOES NOT JUSTIFY DENYING THAT
PARTY COURT-ORDERED POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A CHILD.
REFUSAL BY A PARTY TO ALLOW POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A
CHILD DOES NOT JUSTIFY FAIL URE TO PAY COURT-ORDERED CHILD
SUPPORT TO THAT PARTY. Property and Parties The Court finds that the
following orders respecting the property and parties are necessary and
equitable. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall be responsible for
the timely payment of the following: A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS

=== PAGE 22 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.27 APP 2.27 1. The auto insurance for the vehicle in
her possession; 2. the monthly payment for her cell phone; 3. the rent
payment for the residence located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga, Texas
beginning after March 30, 2024. IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS
shall be responsible for the timely payment of the following: 1. The auto
insurance for the 2021 Mazda, the 2023 Mazda, and any other vehicle
currently in his possession; 2. the car payments for the 2021 Mazda, the
2023 Mazda, and any other vehicle currently in his possession; 3. the
monthly payment for his cell phone; 4. the rent payment for the residence
located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga, Texas for February and March 2024.
IT IS ORDERED that Petitioner have the exclusive and private use and
possession of the following property while this case is pending: the personal
property and clothing in her possession, the 2007 Mazda motor vehicle
currently in her possession, and the residence located at 6641 Anns Court,
Watauga, Texas beginning March 30, 2024. IT IS ORDERED that Respondent
have the exclusive and private use and possession of the following property
while this case is pending: the personal property and clothing in his
possession, the 2021 Mazda motor vehicle, the 2023 Mazda motor vehicle,
and the residence located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga, Texas ONLY until
March 20, 2024. Co-Parenting Website IT IS ORDERED that the parties are
to attend "Children in the Middle" part 1 and/or 2 A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.28 APP 2.28 by May 1,
2024, and file a certificate of completion with the Court for their attendance
to this coparenting class. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each party shall be
solely liable for their own costs for the attendance of this co-parenting class.
App Close IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS
each shall, within ten days after the entry of the Associate Judge's Report is
signed by the Court, obtain at his/her sole expense a subscription to the
AppClose program. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and
CHARLES MYERS each shall maintain that subscription in full force and
effect for as long as the child is under the age of eighteen years and not
otherwise emancipated. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and
CHARLES MYERS shall each communicate through the AppClose program
with regard to all communication regarding the children, except in the case
of emergency or other urgent matter. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN
MYERS and CHARLES MYERS each shall timely post all significant
information concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children,
including but not limited to the children's medical appointments, the
children's schedules and activities, and request for reimbursement of
uninsured health-care expenses, on the AppClose website. However, IT IS
ORDERED that neither party shall have any obligation to post on that
website any information to which the other party already has access through
other means, such as information available on the website of the children's
schools. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES
MYERS shall each timely post on the AppClose website a copy of any email
received by the party from the A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.29 APP 2.29 children's school or any health-care
provider of the children, in the event that email was not also forwarded by
the school or health-care provider to the other party. For purposes of this

=== PAGE 23 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
section of this order, "timely" means on learning of the event or activity, or if
not immediately feasible under the circumstances, not later than twenty-four
hours after learning of the event or activity. By agreement, the parties may
communicate m any manner other than usmg the AppClose program, but
other methods of communication used by the parties shall be in addition to,
and not in lieu of, using the AppClose program. Temporary Injunction The
temporary injunction granted below shall be effective immediately and shall
be binding on the parties; on their agents, servants, employees, and
attorneys; and on those persons in active concert or participation with them
who receive actual notice of this order by personal service or otherwise. The
requirement of a bond is waived. IT IS ORDERED that Petitioner and
Respondent are enjoined from: 1. Intentionally communicating with the
other party in person or m any other manner, including by telephone or
another electronic voice transmission, video chat, in writing, or electronic
messaging, by use of vulgar, profane, obscene, or indecent language or in a
coarse or offensive manner, with intent to annoy or alarm the other party. 2.
Threatening the other party in person or in any other manner, including by
telephone or another electronic voice transmission, video chat, in writing, or
electronic messaging, to take unlawful action against any person, intending
by this action to annoy or alarm the other party. 3. Placing a telephone call,
anonymously, at any unreasonable hour, in an offensive A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.30 APP 2.30 and
repetitious manner, or without a legitimate purpose of communication with
the intent to annoy or alarm the other party. 4. Intentionally, knowingly, or
recklessly causing bodily injury to the other party or to a child of either
party. 5. Threatening the other party or a child of either party with imminent
bodily injury. 6. Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly destroying, removing,
concealing, encumbering, transferring, or otherwise harming or reducing
the value of the property of one or both of the parties with intent to obstruct
the authority of the Court to order a division of the estate of the parties in a
manner that the Court deems just and right, having due regard for the
rights of each party and the children of the marriage. 7. Intentionally
falsifying any writing or record, including an electronic record, relating to
the property of either party. 8. Intentionally misrepresenting or refusing to
disclose to the other party or to the Court, on proper request, the existence,
amount, or location of any tangible or intellectual property of one or both of
the parties, including electronically stored or recorded information. 9.
Intentionally or knowingly damaging or destroying the tangible or
intellectual property of one or both of the parties, including electronically
stored or recorded information, and causing pecuniary loss or substantial
inconvenience to the other party. 10. Intentionally or knowingly tampering
with the tangible or intellectual property of one or both of the parties,
including electronically stored or recorded information, and causing
pecuniary loss or substantial inconvenience to the other party. 11. Selling,
transferring, assigning, mortgaging, encumbering, or in any other manner
alienating any of the property of one or both of the parties, whether
personal property, real A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz APP 2.31 APP 2.31 property, or intellectual property, and whether
separate or community property, except as specifically authorized by this
order. 12. Incurring any debt, other than legal expenses in connection with

=== PAGE 24 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
this suit, except as specifically authorized by this order. 13. Withdrawing
money from any checking or savmgs account in any financial institution for
any purpose, except as specifically authorized by this order. 14. Spending
any money in either party's possession or subject to either party's control for
any purpose, except as specifically authorized by this order. 15. Withdrawing
or borrowing money in any manner for any purpose from any retirement,
profit-sharing, pension, death, or other employee benefit plan, employee
savings plan, individual retirement account, or Keogh account of either
party, except as specifically authorized by this order. 16. Withdrawing,
transferring, ass1gmng, encumbering, selling, or in any other manner
alienating any funds or assets held in any brokerage account, mutual fund
account, or investment account by one or both parties, regardless of
whether the funds or assets are community or separate property and
whether the accounts are self-managed or managed by a third party, except
as specifically authorized by this order. 17. Withdrawing or borrowing in any
manner all or any part of the cash surrender value of any life insurance
policy on the life of either party or a child of the parties, except as
specifically authorized by this order. 18. Entering any safe-deposit box in the
name of or subject to the control of one or both of the parties, whether
individually or jointly with others. 19. Changing or in any manner altering
the beneficiary designation on any life A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.32 APP 2.32 insurance policy on the life
of either party or a child of the parties. 20. Canceling, altering, failing to
renew or pay premiums on, or m any manner affecting the level of coverage
that existed at the time this suit was filed of, any life, casualty, automobile,
or health insurance policy insuring the parties' property or persons
including a child of the parties. 21. Opening or diverting mail or email or any
other electronic communication addressed to the other party. 22. Signing or
endorsing the other party's name on any negotiable instrument, check, or
draft, including a tax refund, insurance payment, and dividend, or
attempting to negotiate any negotiable instrument payable to the parties or
the other party without the personal signature of the other party. 23. Taking
any action to terminate or limit credit or charge cards in the name of the
parties or the other party, except as specifically authorized in this order. 24.
Discontinuing or reducing the withholding for federal income taxes from
either party's wages or salary. 25. Destroying, disposing of, or altering any
financial records of the parties, including but not limited to a canceled
check, deposit slip, and other records from a financial institution, a record of
credit purchases or cash advances, a tax return, and a financial statement.
26. Destroying, disposing of, or altering any email, text message, video
message, or chat message or other electronic data or electronically stored
information relevant to the subject matter of this case, whether stored on a
hard drive, in a removable storage device, in cloud storage, or in another
electronic storage medium. 27. Modifying, changing, or altering the native
format or metadata of any electronic A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS
A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz APP 2.33 APP 2.33 data or electronically stored information
relevant to the subject matter of this case, whether stored on a hard drive,
in a removable storage device, in cloud storage, or in another electronic
storage medium. 28. Deleting any data or content from any social network
profile used or created by either party or a child of the parties. 29. Using

=== PAGE 25 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
any password or personal identification number to gain access to the other
party's email account, bank account, social media account, or any other
electronic account. 30. Consuming, use or have in their possession any
illegal drug or drugs at any time nor shall they have, at any time, a legal
drug or drugs in their possession for which that party does not have a
prescription. 31. Neither party shall consume alcohol at least 12 hours prior
to their time for possession of the children. 32. Neither party shall consume
alcohol during their period of possession with the children. 33. Neither party
shall attend one of the children's activities if they have consumed alcohol or
they are under the influence of alcohol. 34. Neither party shall leave the
children with a person who is consuming alcohol at least 12 hours prior to
taking possession of the children or has in their possession an illegal
drug(s), including prescription drugs, as a childcare provider. 35. No
disparaging remarks in the presence of the children and no discussion of
litigation or issues of the case with children. 36. The parties are not to
discuss the litigation or issues with the children about the other party. The
aforementioned sentence means that neither party shall belittle, talk bad,
refer to A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP
2.34 APP 2.34 the other party using a profane name or names, profanity or
curse words. 37. The parties are not to discuss the litigation or issues with
the children. 38. Neither party shall discuss what occurred in Court
including testimony of any witness or witnesses with the children. IT IS
ORDERED that Petitioner is further enjoined from: 1. Entering, operating, or
exercising control over the 2021 Mazda motor vehicle and the 2023 Mazda
motor vehicle in the possession of Respondent. IT IS ORDERED that
Respondent is further enjoined from: 1. Excluding Petitioner from the use
and enjoyment of the residence located at 6641 Anns Court, Watagua, Texas
on or after March 30, 2024;. 2. Entering, operating, or exercising control
over the 2007 Mazda motor vehicle in the possession of Petitioner. IT IS
ORDERED that Petitioner is specifically authorized: To make expenditures
and incur indebtedness for reasonable and necessary living expenses for
food, clothing, shelter, transportation, and medical care. To make
expenditures and incur indebtedness for reasonable attorney's fees and
expenses in connection with this suit. To make withdrawals from accounts m
financial institutions only for the purposes authorized by this order. IT IS
ORDERED that Respondent is specifically authorized: To make expenditures
and incur indebtedness for reasonable and necessary living expenses for
food, clothing, shelter, transportation, and medical care. To make
expenditures and incur indebtedness for reasonable attorney's fees and
expenses A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP
2.35 APP 2.35 in connection with this suit. For purposes of this order,
"personal property" includes, but 1s not limited to, the following: a. cash,
checks, traveler's checks, and money orders; b. funds on deposit in financial
accounts with commercial banks, savings banks, and credit unions; c. funds
and assets held in brokerage, mutual fund, and other investment accounts;
d. publicly traded stocks, bonds, and other securities; e. stock options and
restricted stock units; f. bonuses; g. closely held business interests; h.
retirement benefits and accounts; 1. deferred compensation benefits; J.
insurance policies, annuities, and health savings accounts; k. motor vehicles,
boats, airplanes, cycles, mobile homes, trailers, and recreational vehicles; I.

=== PAGE 26 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
money owed to one or both parties, including notes and expected income tax
refunds; m. household furniture, furnishings, and fixtures; n. electronics and
computers; o. antiques, artwork, and collections; p. sporting goods and
firearms; q. jewelry and other personal items; A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.36 APP 2.36 r. pets and livestock; s. club
memberships; t. travel award benefits and other award accounts; u. crops,
farm equipment, construction equipment, tools, leases, cemetery lots, gold
or silver coins not part of a collection, tax overpayments, loss carry-forward
deductions, lottery tickets/winnings, stadium bonds, stadium seat licenses,
seat options, season tickets, ranch brands, and business names; v. digital
assets such as email addresses, social network accounts, Web sites, domain
names, digital media such as pictures, music, e-books, movies, and videos,
biogs, reward points, digital storefronts, artwork, and data storage
accounts; w. virtual assets such as virtual pets, avatars, accessories for
virtual characters, virtual prizes, virtual real estate, and virtual currency; x.
safe-deposit boxes and their contents; y. storage facilities and their contents;
and z. contingent assets. Duration These Temporary Orders shall continue in
force until the signing of the Final Decree of Divorce or until further order of
this Court. SIGNED on JVl ? l / t 26 2_1f . .TI..JDGE PRESIDING APPROVED
AS TO FORM ONLY: MARX ALTMAN & JOHNSON A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.37 APP 2.37 2905
Lackland Rd. FT. WORTH, Texas 76116 Tel: (817) 926-6211 Fax: (817)
926-6188 By:__,__..,,c_-f#--1-b~----------- Cooper Attome for Petitioner State
Bar No. 24121530 coopercarter@maj admin. com Daniel R. Bacalis PC 669
Airport Freeway Suite 307 Hurst, TX 76053 Office Phone: (817)498-4105
Fax: (817)282-0634 By: _______________ _ Daniel Bucalis Attorney for
Respondent State Bar No. 01487550 Email: dbacalis@dbacalis.com
APPROVED AND CONSENTED TO AS TO BOTH FORM AND SUBSTANCE:
MORGAN MYERS PETITIONER CHARLES MYERS RESPONDENT A
CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.38
APP 2.38 Automated Certificate of eService This automated certificate of
service was created by the efiling system. The filer served this document via
email generated by the efiling system on the date and to the persons listed
below. The rules governing certificates of service have not changed. Filers
must still provide a certificate of service that complies with all applicable
rules. Envelope ID: 85983756 Filing Code Description: No Fee Documents
Filing Description: Status as of 3/27/2024 7:40 AM CST Associated Case
Party: MORGANMICHELLEMYERS Name MORGAN MICHELLEMYERS
Cooper L.Carter BarNumber Email morganmw02@gmail.com
coopercarter@majadmin.com TimestampSubmitted 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM
3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM Status SENT SENT Associated Case Party:
CHARLESDUSTINMYERS Name Daniel Bacalis Tammy L.Johnson Daniel
R.Bacalis CHARLES MYERS BarNumber Email service@dbacalis.com
tjohnson@dbacalis.com dbacalis@dbacalis.com chuckdustin12@gmail.com
TimestampSubmitted 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM
3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM Status SENT SENT SENT
SENT A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.39
APP 2.39 TAB 3 In the Court of Appeals Second Appellate District of Texas at

=== PAGE 27 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Fort Worth No. 02-25-00166-CV Original Proceeding 322nd District Court
Tarrant County, Texas Trial Court No. 322-744263-23 ORDER We have
considered relator’s “Motion for En Banc Reconsideration.” It is the opinion
of the court that the motion for en banc reconsideration should be and is
hereby denied and that the opinion and judgment of April 15, 2025, stand
unchanged. We direct the clerk of this court to send a notice of this order to
the relator and attorneys of record. Dated April 24, 2025. Per Curiam En
Banc IN RE CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS FILE COPY APP 3.1 TAB 4 In the
Court of Appeals Second Appellate District of Texas at Fort Worth
___________________________ No. 02-25-00166-CV ___________________________
Original Proceeding 322nd District Court of Tarrant County, Texas Trial
Court No. 322-744263-23 Before Bassel, Kerr, and Wallach, JJ. Per Curiam
Memorandum Opinion IN RE CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, Relator APP 4.1 2
MEMORANDUM OPINION The court has considered relator’s petition for
writ of mandamus and emergency motion to stay proceedings and is of the
opinion that relief should be denied. Accordingly, relator’s petition for writ
of mandamus and emergency motion to stay proceedings are denied. Per
Curiam Delivered: April 15, 2025 APP 4.2 TAB 5 APP 5.1 APP 5.1 APP 5.1
APP 5.1 Texas Family Code § 201.007 – Powers of Associate Judge (a) Except
as limited by an order of referral, an associate judge may: (1) conduct a
hearing; (2) hear evidence; (3) compel production of relevant evidence; (4)
rule on the admissibility of evidence; (5) issue a summons for: (A) the
appearance of witnesses; and (B) the appearance of a parent who has failed
to appear before an agency authorized to conduct an investigation of an
allegation of abuse or neglect of a child after receiving proper notice; (6)
examine a witness; (7) swear a witness for a hearing; (8) make findings of
fact on evidence; (9) formulate conclusions of law; (10) recommend an order
to be rendered in a case; (11) regulate all proceedings in a hearing before
the associate judge; (12) order the attachment of a witness or party who
fails to obey a subpoena; (13) order the detention of a witness or party found
guilty of contempt, pending approval by the referring court as provided by
Section 201.013; (14) without prejudice to the right to a de novo hearing
before the referring court under Section 201.015 and subject to Subsection
(c), render and sign: (A) a final order agreed to in writing as to both form
and substance by all parties; (B) a final default order; (C) a temporary order;
or (D) a final order in a case in which a party files an unrevoked waiver
made in accordance with Rule 119, Texas Rules of Civil Procedure, that
waives notice to the party of the final hearing or waives the party's
appearance at the final hearing; (15) take action as necessary and proper for
the efficient performance of the associate judge's duties; and (16) render
and sign a final order if the parties waive the right to a de novo hearing
before the referring court under Section 201.015 in writing before the start
of a hearing conducted by the associate judge. (b) An associate judge may, in
the interest of justice, refer a case back to the referring court regardless of
whether a timely objection to the associate judge hearing the trial on the
merits or presiding at a jury trial has been made by any APP 5.2 APP 5.2
APP 5.2 APP 5.2 party. (c) A final order described by Subsection (a)(14)
becomes final after the expiration of the period described by Section
201.015(a) if a party does not request a de novo hearing in accordance with
that section. An order described by Subsection (a)(14) or (16) that is
rendered and signed by an associate judge constitutes an order of the
referring court. (d) An answer filed by or on behalf of a party who previously

=== PAGE 28 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
filed a waiver described in Subsection (a)(14)(D) shall revoke that waiver. (e)
An order signed before May 1, 2017, by an associate judge under Subsection
(a)(16) is a final order rendered as of the date the order was signed. TAB 6
APP 6.1 APP 6.1 APP 6.1 APP 6.1 Texas Family Code § 201.015 – De Novo
Hearing Before Referring Court (a) A party may request a de novo hearing
before the referring court by filing with the clerk of the referring court a
written request not later than the third working day after the date the party
receives notice of: (1) the substance of the associate judge's report as
provided by Section 201.011; or (2) the rendering of the temporary order, if
the request concerns a temporary order rendered by an associate judge
under Section 201.007(a)(14)(C). (b) A request for a de novo hearing under
this section must specify the issues that will be presented to the referring
court. (c) In the de novo hearing before the referring court, the parties may
present witnesses on the issues specified in the request for hearing. The
referring court may also consider the record from the hearing before the
associate judge, including the charge to and verdict returned by a jury. (d)
Notice of a request for a de novo hearing before the referring court shall be
given to the opposing attorney under Rule 21a, Texas Rules of Civil
Procedure. (e) If a request for a de novo hearing before the referring court
is filed by a party, any other party may file a request for a de novo hearing
before the referring court not later than the third working day after the date
the initial request was filed. (f) The referring court, after notice to the
parties, shall hold a de novo hearing not later than the 30th day after the
date on which the initial request for a de novo hearing was filed with the
clerk of the referring court. (g) Before the start of a hearing by an associate
judge, the parties may waive the right of a de novo hearing before the
referring court in writing or on the record. (h) The denial of relief to a party
after a de novo hearing under this section or a party's waiver of the right to
a de novo hearing before the referring court does not affect the right of a
party to file a motion for new trial, motion for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict, or other post-trial motion. (i) A party may not demand a second jury
in a de novo hearing before the referring APP 6.2 APP 6.2 APP 6.2 APP 6.2
court if the associate judge's proposed order or judgment resulted from a
jury trial. Automated Certificate of eService This automated certificate of
service was created by the efiling system. The filer served this document via
email generated by the efiling system on the date and to the persons listed
below: Envelope ID: 100310746 Filing Code Description: Petition Filing
Description: Petition for Writ of Mandamus Status as of 5/1/2025 8:49 AM
CST Case Contacts Name CHARLES DMYERS BarNumber Email
CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM TimestampSubmitted 5/1/2025 8:36:20
AM Status SENT MANDAMUS 4: REGIONAL PRESIDING JUDGE DAVID L.
EVANS 1 No.25-_____ IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS IN RE:
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, RELATOR. On Petition for Writ of Mandamus
from the 322nd Judicial District Court, Tarrant County Cause Number
322-744263-23 Original Proceeding Hon. David L. Evans Presiding
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS Respectfully submitted by: Charles
Dustin Myers chuckdustin12@gmail.com Tel.: 817-546-3693 6641 Anne
Court Watauga, Texas 76148 FILED 25-0426 5/19/2025 9:46 AM
tex-100980126 SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS BLAKE A. HAWTHORNE,
CLERK 2 Identity of Parties and Counsel Relator Charles Dustin Myers 6641
Anne Court Watauga, Texas 76148 chuckdustin12@gmail.com 817-546-3693
Intervenor Holly Hayes SBN# 24110698 2001 Beach Street Fort Worth, TX

=== PAGE 29 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
76103 csd-legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov Real Party in Interest
Morgan Michelle Myers Morganmw02@gmail.com Counsel for Real Party in
Interest Cooper L. Carter SBN# 24121530 Marx, Altman & Johnson 2905
Lackland Road Fort Worth, TX 76116; (817) 926-6211
coopercarter@majadmin.com Respondent Hon. David L. Evans Presiding
Regional Judge 8th Administrative Judicial Region of Texas 100 N. Calhoun
St., 2nd Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-1148 thkemp@tarrantcounty.com (817)
884-1558 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Identity of Parties and
Counsel ....................................................................... 2 Index of
Authorities ..................................................................................... 4-5
Statement of the Case ......................................................................................
6 Statement of
Jurisdiction ................................................................................. 7 Issues
Presented .............................................................................................. 8
Statement of Facts ......................................................................................
9-11 Summary of
Argument .................................................................................. 12
Argument .......................................................................................................
13 A. Standard of Review ............................................................................ 13
B. Government Code § 74.102(b) Does Not Excuse Noncompliance With Rule
18a ................................................................................ 13-15 C. The
involvement of the coordinator in this instance has proven to be inefficient
and has undermined the integrity of the recusal
process ............................................................................................ 15-16 D.
No triggering motion makes Honorable Jeff Kaitcer’s Order of Referral
Erroneous .......................................................................... 17
Conclusion ...............................................................................................
18-19 Prayer for
relief ........................................................................................ 19-20
Certification (TRAP 52.3(j)) ......................................................................... 21
Certificate of Compliance .............................................................................
22 Certificate of
Service .................................................................................... 23 4 Index of
Authorities Cases Page In re Amir-Sharif, NUMBER 13-19-00573-CV (Tex.
App. Dec 12, 2019) ...................... 14-15 Ford Motor Co. v. Garcia, 363 S.W.
3d 573, 578 (Tex.2012) .............................................................. 13 In re
Norman, 191 S.W.3d 858 (Tex. App.—Houston, 2006, orig.
proceeding) .............. 17 Rio Grande Valley Gas Co., In re, 987 S.W.2d 167
(Tex. App. 1999) ............................................................. 14 In re Stearman,
252 S.W.3d 113 (Tex. App.—Waco 2008, orig. proceeding) ................... 17 In
re Sw. Bell Tel. Co., 226 S.W.3d 400, 403 (Tex.
2007) .............................................................. 13 Walker v. Packer, 827 S.W.
2d 833, 839–40 (Tex.1992) (orig. proceeding) .......................... 13 Statutes
and Rules Texas Code of Judicial Conduct Canon
2(A) ............................................................................................... 12 Texas
Government Code §
22.221 ...................................................................................................... 7 §
74.101 .................................................................................................... 13 §
74.102 ............................................................................................. passim 5
Texas Rules of Civil Procedure §
18a ................................................................................................. passim 6
Statement of the Case Nature of Underlying Proceeding: This original

=== PAGE 30 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
proceeding arises from a divorce action, No. 322-744263-23, pending in the
322nd District Court of Tarrant County, Texas. The Relator initiated recusal
proceedings under Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 18a, which remain
pending. The issues presented concern the improper handling of those
recusal procedures. Respondent Judge: The Respondent Judge, Honorable
David L. Evans, is the presiding Regional Judge of the 8th Administrative
Judicial Region of Texas. Respondent’s Challenged Actions: The Respondent
erred when he overruled the Relator's objection requesting that the
mandatory procedures set forth in Rule 18a of the Texas Rules of Civil
Procedure be followed. Further, permitting a judge to file an order of
referral regarding a recusal motion where he was not named introduces
confusion and undermines the purpose of the rule, causes further delays,
and leaves the Relator without an adequate appellate remedy. 7 Statement
of Jurisdiction This Petition for Writ of Mandamus is properly filed in the
Supreme Court of Texas, which possesses original jurisdiction to issue writs
of mandamus against regional presiding judges pursuant to Article V,
Section 3 of the Texas Constitution and Texas Government Code § 22.002(a).
In contrast, the jurisdiction of intermediate appellate courts is governed by
Texas Government Code § 22.221, and the Legislature has not conferred
upon those courts the authority to issue writs of mandamus against regional
presiding judges. This original proceeding is properly presented to this
Honorable Court in the first instance due to the jurisdictional limitations of
the Second Court of Appeals and because three previously filed mandamus
proceedings—arising from the same case and naming the same parties—are
currently pending before this Court under cause numbers 25-0361, 25-0367,
and 25-0378. 8 Issues Presented Issue No. 1: Whether the Respondent
abused his discretion by delegating to a court coordinator duties that Texas
Rule of Civil Procedure 18a(e)(1) expressly assigns to the clerk during
recusal proceedings, leaving the Relator without an adequate appellate
remedy. Issue No. 2: Whether the Respondent further abused his discretion
by permitting a judge not subject to recusal to file an order of referral. 9
Statement of Facts “MR” in this section refers to the mandamus record filed
concurrently with this petition. “APP” refers to the mandamus appendix
attached hereto. On April 23, 2025, in the midst of three concurrent
mandamus proceedings in the Second Court of Appeals1, the trial court
below, on its’ own initiative, and after several months of silence, sua sponte
moved to set the matter for final trial (MR 1-1.1). The same day, CHARLES
DUSTIN MYERS, (“the Relator”) filed notice with the Second Court of
Appeals warning that more errors would likely be committed by the trial
court given this sudden decision to move to final trial (MR 2-2.1). The
Relator then objected in the trial court to this setting and reminded the
court that there were three concurrent mandamus proceedings pending in
the Second Court of Appeals (MR 3.1) and named six specific issues that
needed to be resolved before moving to final trial (MR 3.2). The following
day, the Second Court of Appeals issued a per curiam denial regarding
02-25-00166-CV, which is now before this court as cause number 25- 0361
(MR 4-4.1). The Relator then filed a Plea to the Jurisdiction directed to
Honorable James Munford and reiterated several key issues and questioned
the court’s jurisdiction and re-raised constitutional issues (MR 5-5.11). On
April 25, 2025, the Relator filed a Motion to Recuse in the 322nd District
Court seeking to 1 See cause numbers 02-25-00164-CV, 02-25-00166-CV,
02-25-00171-CV 10 recuse the Honorable James Munford (MR 6-6.21) to

=== PAGE 31 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
protect his rights. The recusal included several exhibits, including the
Notice of Court Proceeding (MR 6.22- 6.24), the current temporary orders in
effect that claim consent yet lack the Relator’s signature (MR. 6.25-6.36),
the prior recusal denial (MR. 6.37-6.39), the agreement to reschedule the
prior recusal proceedings (MR. 6.40-6.44), the correspondence with the
court coordinator for the 322nd District Court of Tarrant County regarding
the un-opposed summary judgement motion filed on February 22, 2024, and
the reinstatement of the Honorable Judges from the prior recusal
proceedings (MR. 6.45-6.50), the initial ruling that divested the Relator of
his home, business, and children without findings (MR 6.51-6.53), and the
Associate Judge’s Report signed by the parties on February 1, 2024 (MR.
6.54-6.60) with specific procedural requirements. Following the submission
of his Motion to Recuse, the Relator received notice from the Real Party in
Interest, Morgan Michelle Myers, that their youngest child had sustained a
dental injury. In response, Relator notified the Second Court of Appeals (MR.
7–7.4) and submitted the same notice to the 322nd District Court, amending
the filing to correct a date reference (MR. 8–8.6). Three days later, Relator
filed a First Amended Motion to Recuse to include the medical event (MR. 9–
9.36) containing a case study (MR 9.54-9.91). He also 11 filed a Notice of
Non-Appearance and submitted an objection to the trial setting (MR. 10–
10.6). On April 29, 2025, letters from the District Judge and the Associate
Judge were filed (MR. 11; MR. 12). Each declined to recuse and referred the
matter to Judge David L. Evans of the 8th Administrative Judicial Region
(MR. 13; APP 3). Relator filed an Objection to the Recusal Procedure, stating
that the motion named only the District Judge and not the Associate Judge,
and challenged the inclusion of the latter and objected to the court
coordinator’s involvement (MR 14). Two days later, the Second Court of
Appeals entered denials in cause numbers 02-25-00166-CV and
02-25-00171-CV per curiam (MR. 15; MR. 16). These matters were then
docketed before this Court as cause numbers 25-0367 and 25-0378 on May
2, 2025, and May 7, 2025. On May 6, 2025, Honorable Judge Evans issued
an Order of Assignment still listing both Honorable Jeff Kaitcer and
Honorable James Munford as respondents (APP 2) and used the 322nd
District Court's coordinator to transmit documents, a method Relator
challenged as improper and filed a second objection (MR. 17). On May 15,
2025, Honorable Judge Evans issued an order denying the Relator’s
objections (APP 1), which led to the drafting of this petition for writ of
mandamus. 12 SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT Texas law assigns the court clerk
— not the challenged judge or his personal staff — the duty of transmitting
recusal materials. Rule 18a’s forwarding requirement is statutorily
designated to the clerk of the court where the motion was filed. Allowing a
judge’s court coordinator or personal assistant (a staff member appointed by
the judge) to carry out that delivery would depart from the neutral
procedure envisioned by the rule. A coordinator is a direct appointee of the
judge and serves at his pleasure; having such a person handle a motion
challenging the judge’s own authority undermines the independence of the
process. In other words, the clerk is a neutral custodian of court records,
whereas a coordinator is part of the judge’s office. In the recusal context, it
is far safer to use the clerk (or an independent deputy) to send the papers
on, so that no one can reasonably think the judge is influencing the referral.
Beyond the letter of Rule 18a, Texas’s Code of Judicial Conduct mandates
avoiding not only actual bias but any appearance of impropriety or partiality.

=== PAGE 32 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Canon 2(A) provides that a judge “should act at all times in a manner that
promotes public confidence in the integrity and impartiality of the judiciary”.
In practice this means even the perception of favoritism or undue influence
must be avoided. Here, the Respondent’s order overruling the Relator’s
objection has the opposite effect, constituting an abuse of discretion leaving
the Relator without an appellate remedy. 13 ARGUMENT A. Standard of
Review To obtain relief by writ of mandamus, a relator must establish that
an underlying order is void or a clear abuse of discretion and that no
adequate appellate remedy exists. Walker v. Packer, 827 S.W.2d 833, 839–40
(Tex.1992) (orig. proceeding). An abuse of discretion occurs when a trial
court's ruling is arbitrary and unreasonable, made without regard for
guiding legal principles or supporting evidence. Ford Motor Co. v. Garcia,
363 S.W.3d 573, 578 (Tex.2012). Similarly, a trial court abuses its discretion
when it fails to analyze or apply the law correctly. In re Sw. Bell Tel. Co., 226
S.W.3d 400, 403 (Tex.2007). The Relator submits that the Respondent clearly
abused his discretion by not following the mandatory procedural
requirements of Rule 18a of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure which has
undermined the recusal process. B. Government Code § 74.102(b) Does Not
Excuse Noncompliance With Rule 18a The Court Administration Act,
Government Code Chapter 74, sets broad administrative standards but does
not repeal or override other laws. Section 74.102(a) provides that “by local
administrative rule” courts shall designate the duties of court coordinators.
More importantly, 74.101(b) specifies that each coordinator serves “at the
pleasure of the judge who appointed him.” Here, the 14 coordinator in
question serves at the pleasure of the judge subject to recusal. Texas law
implicitly assigns the court clerk — not the challenged judge or his personal
staff — the duty of transmitting recusal materials. Rule 18a’s forwarding
requirement is typically performed by the clerk of the court where the
motion was filed. Allowing a judge’s court coordinator or personal assistant
(a staff member appointed by the judge) to carry out that delivery would
depart from the neutral procedure envisioned by the rule. Because a
coordinator is a direct appointee of the judge and serves at his pleasure -
having such a person handle a motion challenging the judge’s own authority
undermines the independence of the process. In other words, the clerk is a
neutral custodian of court records, whereas a coordinator is part of the
judge’s office. In the recusal context, Rule 18a(e) specifically delineates
duties to the clerk of the court, not the coordinator. In the Respondent’s
order overruling the Relator’s objection, the invocation of 74.102(b) was
misplaced (APP 1.1). This section simply reinforces that court coordinators
must work smoothly with judges; it does not allow a coordinator or clerk to
disregard the clear instructions of Rule 18a. Nor does § 74.102(b) itself
confer discretion to the clerk that would override the rule’s requirements.
The only plausible understanding of Section 74.102(b) is that it calls for
cooperation in effectuating rules like 18a, not for deviation from them,
which is what occurred here. In Rio Grande Valley Gas Co., In re, 987 S.W.2d
167 (Tex. App. 1999), the 15 court explicitly stated that recusal motions
must be filed "with the clerk of the court." This further reinforces that the
clerk, not a court coordinator, is the proper recipient of recusal-related
filings. Likewise, in In re Amir-Sharif, NUMBER 13- 19-00573-CV (Tex. App.
Dec 12, 2019), the court stated that the respondent judge "must either: (A)
sign and file with the clerk an order of recusal or disqualification; or (B) sign
and file with the clerk an order referring the motion to the regional

=== PAGE 33 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
presiding judge." This explicit reference to filing "with the clerk” is directly
supported by rule 18a(e). Here, deviation from these mandatory procedural
requirements has proven to be inefficient and have undermined the recusal
process itself in a case already fraught with procedural abnormalities. C.
The involvement of the coordinator in this instance has proven to be
inefficient and has undermined the integrity of the recusal process By
involving the court coordinator, the straightforward process of recusal has
become ambiguous. Rule 18a(c) of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure makes
clear that the judge’s obligation to address recusal arises only after a motion
is duly filed: the rule commands that if a party “raises a ground requiring
recusal,” then the judge “shall either recuse himself or request the presiding
judge” to take the motion. Here Judge Evans’ order overruling the Relator’s
objection to Honorable Jeff Kaitcer’s involvement but permitting the issue to
be discussed during the recusal proceedings is not only prejudicial, but it
will waste further judicial resources and cause further delay to the relief
being sought. A judge must base 16 decisions on what is actually in the
record. It is apparent on the face of the record and the motion to recuse that
Honorable Jeff Kaitcer was not named in the motion. This implies that the
motion was not properly reviewed, or the trial court is trying to create an
illusion of an adequate appellate remedy to thwart cause number 25- 0361
pending before this court. The only mention of any recusal regarding
Honorable Jeff Kaitcer in the current proceedings was a reference made to
the prior recusal proceedings initiated on October 7, 2024 (See MR.
9.19-9.20). Notably, the court coordinator was involved in those proceedings
as well, which ended up resulting in a four month delay that was only cured
by the Respondent’s diligence in reminding the coordinator that the judges
were not reinstated into the case while opposing parties remained inactive
throughout that critical delay. (MR 8.1) (emphasis added). In essence, the
Respondent’s invocation of 74.102(b) in the order overruling the Relator’s
objection, even if correct, would not effectuate its purpose of ensuring
“uniform and efficient administration of justice in this state” by involving the
court coordinator. Here, inconsistent proceedings have resulted from this
involvement, significant delays have occurred, and now the Relator faces
recusal proceedings wherein a Judge not named in the motion has
inappropriately implicated himself in the proceedings. This error could have
been easily resolved by vacating the order, but it instead has created
unnecessary ambiguity. 17 D. No triggering motion makes Honorable Jeff
Kaitcer’s Order of Referral Erroneous Under Texas Rule of Civil Procedure
18a, no recusal procedure is triggered until a valid motion is filed. Once a
recusal motion is filed, the challenged judge must either recuse or
immediately forward the motion to the presiding judge. See In re Norman,
191 S.W.3d 858 (Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2006, orig. proceeding);
See also In re Stearman, 252 S.W.3d 113 (Tex. App.—Waco 2008, orig.
proceeding). Absent any motion, however, the judge has no authority to
initiate or refer a recusal proceeding. Here, the Relator's motion to recuse
did not seek recusal of Judge Kaitcer, yet the court overruled his objection to
his referral order. In doing so, the court ignored the Rule’s plain text: a
judge may “make no further orders and shall take no further action in the
case after filing of the motion and prior to a hearing on the motion”. Id. The
court’s suggestion that the assigned judge may nonetheless consider the
Relator's admitted non-filing only underscores the error – it treats an unfiled
motion as if it were pending. In re Norman is instructive: under Rule 18a a

=== PAGE 34 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
judge has “no option” other than to recuse or refer when a motion is
pending. By contrast, here no motion to recuse has been filed regarding the
Associate Judge, so the Honorable Kaitcer’s referral was in error, and the
Respondent had no lawful basis to adjudicate it. For these reasons, the order
was plainly erroneous, and these actions have undermined the recusal
process which is intended to promote public confidence in the judiciary. 18
CONCLUSION In sum, the order overruling Relator’s objection reflects more
than a mere procedural disagreement—it constitutes a refusal to follow the
mandatory directives of Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 18a. Specifically,
18a(e) vests specific procedural duties in the clerk, not the court
coordinator. (emphasis added) The legislature’s choice of language was
deliberate: Rule 18a(e) assigns responsibility for receiving, managing, and
transmitting recusal motions exclusively to the clerk of the court. Nowhere
does it authorize a judge’s personal appointee—such as a court coordinator
—to assume or interfere with these statutory duties. Here, a motion was
ever filed to recuse Associate Judge Jeff Kaitcer. Yet despite the absence of a
triggering event, Judge Kaitcer issued a referral order under Rule 18a as
though a motion were pending. That referral had no lawful basis, and any
action taken in response—including the overruling of Relator’s objection—is
procedurally void. Rule 18a requires a motion before it imposes any duty or
limitation. Without such a filing, Judge Kaitcer lacked authority to refer the
case, and the assigned judge lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate a nonexistent
motion. By further permitting a judge-appointed coordinator to process
these materials, the trial court not only misapplied the Rule—it overlooked
its core purpose. A coordinator, who serves at the pleasure of the very judge
subject to recusal would arguably create the appearance of impartiality
when performing 19 duties designated to the clerk by statute. For all these
reasons, the trial court abused its discretion in overruling Relator’s
objection. Its order departs from both the plain language and the statutory
design of Rule 18a, introducing confusion, delay, and inconsistency into a
process meant to be clear and impartial. The order should be set aside, and
mandamus granted to preserve the integrity of Texas’s statutory recusal
framework. PRAYER FOR RELIEF WHEREFORE, PREMISES CONSIDERED,
Relator respectfully prays that this Honorable Court: 1. Issue a writ of
mandamus directing the Respondent to vacate the Order dated May 15,
2025 and Order of Assignment dated May 6, 2025 to preserve the integrity
of the recusal proceedings; 2. Take judicial notice that this is the fourth
concurrent mandamus petition before this Honorable Court seeking
extraordinary relief and take the instant petition into consideration
regarding the adjudication of the other three mandamus petitions; 20 3.
Grant such other and further relief, whether at law or in equity, to which
Relator may be justly entitled, including all relief necessary to ensure
compliance with Rule 18a and the fair administration of justice. Respectfully
submitted, /s/ Charles Dustin Myers Charles Dustin Myers, Pro Se Email:
chuckdustin12@gmail.com Phone: 817-546-3693 PRO-SE RELATOR
Certification (TRAP 52.3(j)) Before me, the undersigned authority, on this
day personally appeared Charles Dustin Myers, Relator, representing
himself in his own individual capacity, and upon his oath, stated that (i) he is
self-represented in this cause in the underlying suit, 322nd Judicial District
Court, Tarrant County, Cause No.322- 744263-23; (ii) he has reviewed the
Petition for Writ of Mandamus and concluded that every factual statement in
the petition is supported by competent evidence included in the appendix

=== PAGE 35 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
and record; and (3) he has personal knowledge that the items in the
appendix and record are true and correct copies of documents material to
Relator's claims and are either pleadings that are on file in the underlying
suit, or orders signed by the trial court in the underlying suit. The Relator
states that no live testimony has been adduced in this matter, nor has any
evidence been offered or admitted. ___________________ CHARLES DUSTIN
MYERS 21 State of Florida County of Miami-Dade Sworn to (or affirmed)
and subscribed before me by means of online notarization, this 05/18/2025
by Charles Dustin Myers. Micheal Occide ___ Personally Known OR ___
Produced Identification Type of Identification Produced _____D__RIVER
LICENSE Notarized remotely online using communication technology via
Proof. Certificate of Compliance (TRAP 9.4(i)(3)) I certify that this Petition
for Writ of Mandamus complies with the typeface requirements of Tex. R.
App. P. 9.4(e) because it has been prepared in a conventional typeface no
smaller than 14-point for text and 12-point for footnotes. This document also
complies with the word-count limitations of Tex. R. App. P. 9.4(i), if
applicable, because it contains 2562 words. /s/ Charles Dustin Myers
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS PRO-SE RELATOR 22 23 CERTIFICATE OF
SERVICE Relator certifies that on May 19, 2025, a true and correct copy of
the foregoing Petition for Writ of Mandamus was served on all parties and
counsel of record as follows: Respondent Real Party in Interest Hon. David
L. Evans Morgan Michelle Myers Presiding Regional Judge Via EFM:
morganmw02@gmail.com 8th Administrative Judicial Region of Texas 100 N.
Calhoun St., 2nd Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-1148 Via EFM:
thkemp@tarrantcounty.com (817) 884-1558 Counsel for Real Party
Intervenor in Interest Holly Hayes Cooper L. Carter SBN# 24110698 SBN#
24121530 2001 Beach Street Marx, Altman & Johnson Fort Worth, TX 76103
2905 Lackland Road Via EFM: csd-legal-914 Fort Worth, TX 76116 Via EFM:
coopercarter@majadmin.com /s/ Charles Dustin Myers Charles Dustin
Myers, Pro Se Relator No.25-_____ IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS IN
RE: CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, RELATOR. On Petition for Writ of
Mandamus from the 322nd Judicial District Court, Tarrant County Cause
Number 322-744263-23 Hon. David L. Evans Presiding RELATOR’S
APPENDIX Respectfully submitted by: Charles Dustin Myers
chuckdustin12@gmail.com Tel.: 817-546-3693 6641 Anne Court Watauga,
Texas 76148 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS TAB# ITEM TAB 1 ..............................
05.15.2025 – Order Overruling Relator’s Objection TAB 2 ........................
05.06.2025 – Order of Assignment Dated May 6, 2025 TAB
3 .................................... 04.29.2025 – Order of Referral – Judge Kaitcer TAB
4 ......................................................... Code of Judicial Conduct Canon 2 TAB
5 ...................................................................... Tex. Gov't. Code § 22.221 TAB
6 ...................................................................... Tex. Gov't. Code § 74.101 TAB
7 ...................................................................... Tex. Gov't. Code § 74.102 TAB
8 ............................................................................... Tex. R. Civ. P. § 18a 2
TAB 1 3 IN THE MATTER OF THE MARRIAGE OF MORGAN MICHELLE
MYERS AND CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS AND IN THE INTEREST OF MARA
MYERS AND CAUSE NO. 322-744263-23 CAROLINE MYERS, CHILDREN § §
§ § § § § § § § IN THE DISTRICT COURT 322ND JUDICIAL DISTRICT
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS ORDER DENYING OBJECTION TO ORDER OF
ASSIGNMENT DATED MAY 6, 2025 AND THE OBJECTION DATED APRIL
29, 2025 Came on to be considered the Objection to Order of Assignment
Dated May 6, 2025, and the Objection dated April 29, 2025 that were filed

=== PAGE 36 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Charles Dustin Myers in the above-entitled cause. Mr. Myers complains of
the court coordinator's involvement in the recusal process. A Court
Coordinator's duties include assisting the administrative judges. See Tex.
Gov't Code Ann. § 74.102(b) which provides as follows: To promote uniform
and efficient administration of justice in this state, the court coordinators
shall cooperate with regional presiding and local administrative judges and
state agencies having duties in the area of the operation of the courts. The
court coordinators and clerks work together to assist the trial judges and
the administrative judges. Only the judges, not the litigants, have the
authority to direct the activities of the court coordinators and clerks. Mr.
Myers' objections regarding the involvement are overruled. Mr. Myers also
objects to the referral by Judge Kaitcer of a motion to recuse (Kaitcer
recusal motion) to the undersigned. This objection is overruled. However,
the judge who hears 4 APP 1.1 the Kaitcer recusal motion may take into
consideration Mr. Myers' claim that he did not file a motion to recuse Judge
Kaitcer. The Court, having considered the objections is of the opinion that
the objections should be DENIED. IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED that the
Objection to Order of Assignment Dated May 6, 2025 and the Objection filed
on April 29, 2025 are DENIED. SIGNED this 15th day of May, 2025. DA VIO
L. EV ANS, PRESIDING JUDGE ElGHTH ADMJNISTRA TIVE JUDICIAL
REGION 5 APP 1.2 TAB 2 6 322-744263-23 FILED TARRANT COUNTY
5/7/2025 3:07 PM THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK THE STATE OF
TEXAS 8th ADMINISTRATIVE JUDICIAL REGION ORDER OF ASSIGNMENT
BY THE PRESIDING JUDGE Pursuant to Rule 18a, Texas Rules of Civil
Procedure and Section 74.056, Texas Government Code, the undersigned
Presiding Judge assigns the Honorable John H. Cayce, Senior Chief Justice,
Second Court of Appeals, to the 322NDDISl'RICTCOURT, TARRANT
COUNTY, TEXAS. The judge is assigned to preside in the Motion to Recuse
the Honorable James Munford and the Honorable Jeffrey Kaitcer filed by
Charles Dustin Myers on April 25, 2025 and the First Amended Motion to
Recuse the Honorable James Munford and the Honorable Jeffrey Kaitcer
filed on April 28, 2025 in Cause Number 322-744263-23, styled In the
Matter of the Marriage of Morgan Michelle Myers and Charles Dustin Myers
and In the Interest of Mara Myers and Caroline Myers, Minor Children, to
rule on all pending motions, supplemental, amended and or subsequent
motions to recuse and/or disqualify Judge Munford and Judge Kaitcer in the
above-referenced matter. This assignment is effective immediately and will
continue as necessary to rule on this and any pending, supplemental,
amended or subsequent motions to recuse and/or disqualify Judge Munford
and Judge Kaitcer filed by Charles Dustin Myers. IT IS ORDERED that the
clerk of the court to which this assignment is made, if it is reasonable and
practicable, and if time permits, give notice of this assignment to each
attorney representing a party to a case that is to be heard in whole or in
part by the assigned judge. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the clerk, upon
receipt hereof, shall post a copy of this order in a public area of the Clerk's
office or courthouse so that attorneys and parties may be advised of this
assignment. SIGNED this 6th day of May, 2025. cc: Honorable John H. Cayce
Honorable James Munford District Clerk, Tarrant County File DAVID L.
EVANS, PRESIDING JUDGE EIGHTH ADMINISTRATIVE JUDICIAL REGION
OF TEXAS 7 APP 2.1 Automated Certificate of eService This automated
certificate of service was created by the efiling system. The filer served this
document via email generated by the efiling system on the date and to the

=== PAGE 37 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
persons listed below. The rules governing certificates of service have not
changed. Filers must still provide a certificate of service that complies with
all applicable rules. Envelope ID: 100560059 Filing Code Description: No
Fee Documents Filing Description: Status as of 5/7/2025 4:15 PM CST Case
Contacts Name CHARLES MYERS Cooper L.Carter HOLLY HAYES
BarNumber Email chuckdustin12@gmail.com coopercarter@majadmin.com
csd-legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov TimestampSubmitted 5/7/2025
3:07:58 PM 5/7/2025 3:07:58 PM 5/7/2025 3:07:58 PM Status SENT SENT
SENT 8 APP 2.2 TAB 3 9 322-744263-23 FILED TARRANT COUNTY
4/29/2025 3:21 PM THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK CAUSE
NUMBER: 322-744263-23 IN THE MATTER OF THE MARRIAGE OF
MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS AND CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS AND IN THE
INTEREST OF MARA MYERS AND CAROLINE MYERS MINOR
CHILDREN ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) IN THE DISTRICT COURT TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS 322ND JUDICIAL DISTRICT ORDER OF REFERRAL ON MOTION TO
RECUSE AND FIRST AMENDED MOTION TO RECUSE On April 25, 2025, a
Motion to Recuse filed by Charles Dustin Myers was delivered to the
Associate Judge of this Court in the above styled and numbered cause. On
April 28, 2025, a First Amended Motion to Recuse filed by Charles Dustin
Myers was delivered to the Associate Judge of this Court in the above styled
and numbered cause. The Associate Judge against whom the Motion to
Recuse and the First Amended Motion to Recuse was filed hereby declines
to recuse himself on both motions and hereby refers this matter to the
Presiding Judge of the Eight Administrative Judicial District, Honorable
David L. Evans, to decide the Motions. SIGNEDthis 2 1-t'l_
dayof_~A:__._...._p_/'_;_J ____ ,2025. ASSOCIATE JUDGE 10 APP 3.1
Automated Certificate of eService This automated certificate of service was
created by the efiling system. The filer served this document via email
generated by the efiling system on the date and to the persons listed below.
The rules governing certificates of service have not changed. Filers must
still provide a certificate of service that complies with all applicable rules.
Envelope ID: 100231239 Filing Code Description: No Fee Documents Filing
Description: JK LETTER Status as of 4/29/2025 3:29 PM CST Case Contacts
Name CHARLES MYERS Cooper L.Carter HOLLY HAYES BarNumber Email
chuckdustin12@gmail.com coopercarter@majadmin.com csd-
legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov TimestampSubmitted 4/29/2025
3:21:53 PM 4/29/2025 3:21:53 PM 4/29/2025 3:21:53 PM Status SENT
SENT SENT 11 APP 3.2 TAB 4 12 Canon 2 Avoiding Impropriety and the
Appearance of Impropriety in All of the Judge's Activities A. A judge shall
comply with the law and should act at all times in a manner that promotes
public confidence in the integrity and impartiality of the judiciary. B. A judge
shall not allow any relationship to influence judicial conduct or judgment. A
judge shall not lend the prestige of judicial office to advance the private
interests of the judge or others; nor shall a judge convey or permit others to
convey the impression that they are in a special position to influence the
judge. A judge shall not testify voluntarily as a character witness. C. A judge
shall not knowingly hold membership in any organization that practices
discrimination prohibited by law. APP 4.1 13 TAB 5 14 © Copyright 2025,
vLex. All Rights Reserved. Copy for use in the context of the business of the
vLex customer only. Otherwise, distribution or reproduction is not permitted
Section 22.221. Writ Power Library: Government Code Edition: 2025
Currency: Current with legislation from the 2023 Regular and Special

=== PAGE 38 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Sessions signed by the Governor as of November 21, 2023. Citation: Tex.
Gov't. Code § 22.221 Year: 2025 vLex Document Id: VLEX-1076432217 Link:
https://app.vlex.com/vid/section-22-221-writ-1076432217 May 18, 2025
22:51 1/2 APP 5.1 15 (a) Each court of appeals or a justice of a court of
appeals may issue a writ of mandamus and all other writs necessary to
enforce the jurisdiction of the court. (b) Subject to Subsection (c-1), each
court of appeals for a court of appeals district may issue all writs of
mandamus, agreeable to the principles of law regulating those writs, against
a judge of a district, statutory county, statutory probate county, or county
court in the court of appeals district. (c) Each court of appeals for a court of
appeals district, other than the Court of Appeals for the Fifteenth Court of
Appeals District, may issue all writs of mandamus, agreeable to the
principles of law regulating those writs, against: (1) a judge of a district
court who is acting as a magistrate at a court of inquiry under Chapter 52,
Code of Criminal Procedure, in the court of appeals district; or (2) an
associate judge of a district or county court appointed by a judge under
Chapter 201, Family Code, in the court of appeals district for the judge who
appointed the associate judge. (c-1) The original jurisdiction of the Court of
Appeals for the Fifteenth Court of Appeals District to issue writs is limited to
writs arising out of matters over which the court has exclusive intermediate
appellate jurisdiction under Section 22.220(d) . (d) Concurrently with the
supreme court, the court of appeals of a court of appeals district in which a
person is restrained in his liberty, or a justice of the court of appeals, may
issue a writ of habeas corpus when it appears that the restraint of liberty is
by virtue of an order, process, or commitment issued by a court or judge
because of the violation of an order, judgment, or decree previously made,
rendered, or entered by the court or judge in a civil case. Pending the
hearing of an application for a writ of habeas corpus, the court of appeals or
a justice of the court of appeals may admit to bail a person to whom the writ
of habeas corpus may be granted. Cite as Tex. Gov't. Code § 22.221 History:
Amended by Acts 2023, Texas Acts of the 88th Leg.- Regular Session, ch.
459 ,Sec. 1.06 , eff. 9/1/2023, app. to appeals perfected on or after
September 1, 2024 . Amended by Acts 2017, Texas Acts of the 85th Leg. -
Regular Session, ch. 1013 ,Sec. 2 , eff. 9/1/2017. Amended by Acts 2017,
Texas Acts of the 85th Leg. - Regular Session, ch. 1013 ,Sec. 1 , eff.
9/1/2017. Amended by Acts 2017, Texas Acts of the 85th Leg. - Regular
Session, ch. 740 ,Sec. 1 , eff. 9/1/2017. Amended By Acts 1995, 74th Leg.,
ch. 839 , Sec. 1 , eff. 9/1/1995. Amended By Acts 1991, 72nd Leg., ch. 58 ,
Sec. 1, eff. 5/2/1991 Amended By Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 148 , Sec. 1.35,
2.03, eff. 9/1/1987 Amended by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 69 , Sec. 1, eff.
5/6/1987 Acts 1985, 69th Leg., ch. 480 , Sec. 1, eff. 9/1/1985. May 18, 2025
22:51 2/2 APP 5.2 16 TAB 6 17 Texas Government Code - SUBCHAPTER E:
COURT COORDINATORS Sec. 74.101. COURT COORDINATORS. (a) The
local administrative judge and each district or statutory county court judge
may establish a court coordinator system and appoint a court coordinator
for his court to improve justice and expedite the processing of cases through
the courts. (b) Each court coordinator serves at the pleasure of the judge
who appointed him. Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 148, Sec. 2.93(a),
eff. Sept. 1, 1987. APP 6.1 18 TAB 7 19 Texas Government Code -
SUBCHAPTER E: COURT COORDINATORS Sec. 74.102. DUTIES. (a) The
courts by local administrative rule shall designate the duties of the court
coordinators. (b) To promote uniform and efficient administration of justice

=== PAGE 39 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
in this state, the court coordinators shall cooperate with regional presiding
and local administrative judges and state agencies having duties in the area
of the operation of the courts. Added by Acts 1987, 70th Leg., ch. 148, Sec.
2.93(a), eff. Sept. 1, 1987. APP 7.1 20 TAB 8 21 © Copyright 2025, vLex. All
Rights Reserved. Copy for use in the context of the business of the vLex
customer only. Otherwise, distribution or reproduction is not permitted Rule
18a. Recusal and Disqualification of Judges Library: Texas Rules of Civil
Procedure Edition: 2025 Currency: As amended through April 30, 2025 Year:
2025 Citation: Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a vLex Document Id: VLEX-1072477210 Link:
https://app.vlex.com/vid/rule-18a-recusal-and-1072477210 May 18, 2025
22:59 1/4 APP 8.1 22 (a)Motion; Form and Contents. A party in a case in any
trial court other than a statutory probate court or justice court may seek to
recuse or disqualify a judge who is sitting in the case by filing a motion with
the clerk of the court in which the case is pending. The motion: (1) must be
verified; (2) must assert one or more of the grounds listed in Rule 18b; (3)
must not be based solely on the judge's ruling in the case; and (4) must state
with detail and particularity facts that: (A) are within the affiant's personal
knowledge, except that facts may be stated on information and belief if the
basis for that belief is specifically stated; (B) would be admissible in
evidence; and (C) if proven, would be sufficient to justify recusal or
disqualification. (b)Time for Filing Motion. (1) Motion to Recuse. A motion to
recuse:(A) must be filed as soon as practicable after the movant knows of
the ground stated in the motion; and (B) must not be filed after the tenth day
before the date set for trial or other hearing unless, before that day, the
movant neither knew nor reasonably should have known: (i) that the judge
whose recusal is sought would preside at the trial or hearing; or (ii) that the
ground stated in the motion existed. (2) Motion to Disqualify. A motion to
disqualify should be filed as soon as practicable after the movant knows of
the ground stated in the motion. (c)Response to Motion. (1) By Another
Party. Any other party in the case may, but need not, file a response to the
motion. Any response must be filed before the motion is heard. (2) By the
Respondent Judge. The judge whose recusal or disqualification is sought
should not file a response to the motion. (d)Service of Motion or Response. A
party who files a motion or response must serve a copy on every other party.
The method of service must be the same as the method of filing. If possible.
(e)Duty of the Clerk. (1) Delivery of a Motion or Response. When a motion or
response is filed, the clerk of the court must immediately deliver a copy to
the respondent judge and to the presiding judge of the administrative
judicial region in which the court is located ( "the regional presiding
judge" ). (2) Delivery of Order of Recusal or Referral. When a respondent
judge signs and files an order of recusal or referral, the clerk of the court
must immediately deliver a copy to the regional presiding judge. (f)Duties of
the Respondent Judge; Failure to Comply. (1) Responding to the Motion.
Regardless of whether the motion complies with this rule, the respondent
judge, within three business days after the motion is filed, must either: (A)
sign and May 18, 2025 22:59 23 APP 8.2 2/4 file with the clerk an order of
recusal or disqualification; or (B) sign and file with the clerk an order
referring the motion to the regional presiding judge. (2) Restrictions on
Further Action. (A) Motion Filed Before Evidence Offered at Trial. If a
motion is filed before evidence has been offered at trial, the respondent
judge must take no further action in the case until the motion has been
decided, except for good cause stated in writing or on the record. (B) Motion

=== PAGE 40 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Filed After Evidence Offered at Trial. If a motion is filed after evidence has
been offered at trial, the respondent judge may proceed, subject to stay by
the regional presiding judge. (3) Failure to Comply. If the respondent judge
fails to comply with a duty imposed by this rule, the movant may notify the
regional presiding judge. (g)Duties of Regional Presiding Judge. (1) Motion.
The regional presiding judge must rule on a referred motion or assign a
judge to rule. If a party files a motion to recuse or disqualify the regional
presiding judge, the regional presiding judge may still assign a judge to rule
on the original, referred motion. Alternatively, the regional presiding judge
may sign and file with the clerk an order referring the second motion to the
Chief Justice for consideration. (2) Order. The ruling must be by written
order. (3) Summary Denial for Noncompliance. (A) Motion to Recuse. A
motion to recuse that does not comply with this rule may be denied without
an oral hearing. The order must state the nature of the noncompliance. Even
if the motion is amended to correct the stated noncompliance, the motion
will count for purposes of determining whether a tertiary recusal motion has
been filed under the Civil Practice and Remedies Code. (B) Motion to
Disqualify. A motion to disqualify may not be denied on the ground that it
was not filed or served in compliance with this rule. (4) Interim Orders. The
regional presiding judge or judge assigned to decide the motion may issue
interim or ancillary orders in the pending case as justice may require. (5)
Discovery. Except by order of the regional presiding judge or the judge
assigned to decide the motion, a subpoena or discovery request may not
issue to the respondent judge and may be disregarded unless accompanied
by the order. (6) Hearing. (A) Time. The motion must be heard as soon as
practicable and may be heard immediately after it is referred to the regional
presiding judge or an assigned judge. (B) Notice. Notice of the hearing must
be given to all parties in the case. (C) By Telephone. The hearing may be
conducted by telephone on the record. Documents submitted by facsimile or
email, otherwise admissible under the rules of evidence, may be considered.
(7) Reassignment of Case if Motion Granted. If the motion is granted, the
regional presiding judge must transfer the case to another court or assign
another judge to the case. (h)Sanctions. After notice and hearing, the judge
who hears the motion may order the party or attorney who filed the motion,
or both, to pay the reasonable attorney fees and expenses incurred by other
parties if the judge determines that the motion was: May 18, 2025 22:59 24
APP 8.3 3/4 (1) groundless and filed in bad faith or for the purpose of
harassment, or (2) clearly brought for unnecessary delay and without
sufficient cause. (i)Chief Justice. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
Texas may assign judges and issue any orders permitted by this rule or
pursuant to statute. (j)Appellate Review. (1) Order on Motion to Recuse. (A)
Denying Motion. An order denying a motion to recuse may be reviewed only
for abuse of discretion on appeal from the final judgment. (B) Granting
Motion. An order granting a motion to recuse is final and cannot be
reviewed by appeal, mandamus, or otherwise. (2) Order on Motion to
Disqualify. An order granting or denying a motion to disqualify may be
reviewed by mandamus and may be appealed in accordance with other law.
Cite as Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a May 18, 2025 22:59 25 APP 8.4 4/4 22
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE Relator certifies that on May 19, 2025, a true
and correct copy of the foregoing MANDAMUS APPENDIXwas served on all
parties and counsel of record as follows: Respondent Real Party in Interest
Hon. David L. Evans Morgan Michelle Myers Presiding Regional Judge Via

=== PAGE 41 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
EFM: morganmw02@gmail.com 8th Administrative Judicial Region of Texas
100 N. Calhoun St., 2nd Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-1148 Via EFM:
thkemp@tarrantcounty.com (817) 884-1558 Counsel for Real Party
Intervenor in Interest Holly Hayes Cooper L. Carter SBN# 24110698 SBN#
24121530 2001 Beach Street Marx, Altman & Johnson Fort Worth, TX 76103
2905 Lackland Road Via EFM: csd-legal-914 Fort Worth, TX 76116 Via EFM:
coopercarter@majadmin.com /s/ Charles Dustin Myers Charles Dustin
Myers, Pro Se Relator Automated Certificate of eService This automated
certificate of service was created by the efiling system. The filer served this
document via email generated by the efiling system on the date and to the
persons listed below: Envelope ID: 100980126 Filing Code Description:
Record - Original Proceeding Filing Description: Mandamus Record Status
as of 5/19/2025 11:58 AM CST Case Contacts Name Cooper Carter Holly
Hayes Honorable David LEvans Morgan MichelleMyers CHARLES DMYERS
BarNumber Email COOPERCARTER@majadmin.com csd-
legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov thkemp@tarrantcounty.com
morganmw02@gmail.com CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM
TimestampSubmitted 5/19/2025 9:46:32 AM 5/19/2025 9:46:32 AM
5/19/2025 9:46:32 AM 5/19/2025 9:46:32 AM 5/19/2025 9:46:32 AM Status
NOT SENT NOT SENT NOT SENT NOT SENT NOT SENT MANDAMUS 5:
APPOINTED RETIRED JUSTICE JOHN H. CAYCE 1 NO. 25-____ IN THE
SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS In Re: Charles Dustin Myers, Relator Original
Proceeding from the 322nd District Court Tarrant County, Texas Hon. John
H. Cayce, Jr. Presiding by Assignment PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS Respectfully submitted by: Charles Dustin Myers, Relator
817-546-3693 CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM Denton County, Texas
EMERGENCY STAY REQUESTED FILED 25-0458 5/27/2025 1:09 PM
tex-101277699 SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS BLAKE A. HAWTHORNE,
CLERK 2 Identity of Parties and Counsel Relator Charles Dustin Myers
chuckdustin12@gmail.com 817-546-3693 Intervenor Holly Hayes SBN#
24110698 2001 Beach Street Fort Worth, TX 76103 csd-
legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov Real Party in Interest Morgan Michelle
Myers Morganmw02@gmail.com Counsel for Real Party in Interest Cooper
L. Carter SBN# 24121530 Marx, Altman & Johnson 2905 Lackland Road
Fort Worth, TX 76116; (817) 926-6211 coopercarter@majadmin.com
Respondent Hon. John H. Cayce, Jr. Presiding by Assignment 8th
Administrative Judicial Region of Texas 100 N. Calhoun St., 2nd Floor Fort
Worth, TX 76196-1148 thkemp@tarrantcounty.com (817) 884-1558 3 TABLE
OF CONTENTS Identity of parties and
counsel ........................................................................ 2 Table of
contents ............................................................................................. 3 Index
of authorities ......................................................................................... 4
Statement of the case.......................................................................................
5 Statement of
jurisdiction ................................................................................. 6 Issues
presented ............................................................................................... 7
Statement of facts .......................................................................................
8-12
Introduction ...................................................................................................
13
Argument .......................................................................................................
14 I. Standard of review ................................................................. 14-15 II.

=== PAGE 42 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
The Respondent abused his discretion when summarily denying the
Relator’s recusal motion without a hearing and for reasons that do not
comport with the motion filed ...... 15--16 III. The compounding issues in this
matter reveal a pattern of conduct that has broader implications for the
Texas Legal System if not resolved, and have perpetuated the lack of an
appellate remedy .................................................................... 17-18
Conclusion ...............................................................................................
18-21
Prayer .......................................................................................................
21-22 Certification (TRAP
52.3(j)) ......................................................................... 23 Certificate of
compliance .............................................................................. 24 4 INDEX OF
AUTHORITIES CASE PAGE # In re Amir-Sharif, NUMBER 13-19-00573-CV
(Tex. App. Dec 12, 2019) ........................... 15 Canadian Helicopters, Ltd. v.
Wittig, 876 S.W.2d 304, 306 (Tex.
1994) .............................................................. 14 Perry v. Del Rio, 66 S.W.3d
239, 257 (Tex.2001) ................................................................ 14 In re
Prudential Ins. Co. of America, 148 S.W.3d 124, (Tex.
2003) .................................................................... 14 Ex parte Sinegar, 324
S.W.3d 578 (Tex. Crim. App. 2010) .................................................. 15
Spigener v. Wallis, 80 S.W.3d 174 (Tex. App.
2002) ............................................................... 15 Taylor v. Taylor (Tex. App.
2001) ....................................................................................... 15 In re
Thompson, 330 S.W.3d 411 (Tex. App.
2010) ............................................................. 15 In re Union Pacific
Resources Co., 969 S.W.2d 427 (Tex.
1998) ..................................................................... 15 Walker v. Packer, 827
S.W.2d 833, 840 (Tex.1992) .............................................................. 14
RULES AND STATUTES Tex. R. Civ. P. §
1 .......................................................................................... 14 Tex. R. Civ. P. §
18a ............................................................................... passim 5 STATEMENT
OF THE CASE Nature of Underlying Proceeding: This original proceeding
arises from a divorce action, No. 322-744263-23, pending in the 322nd
District Court of Tarrant County, Texas. The Relator initiated recusal
proceedings under Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 18a, which were handled in
a manner which deviated outside of Rule 18a’s requirements. See 25-0426.
The current petition addresses the summary denial of the recusal motion
and highlights a broader pattern of systemic failures below. Respondent
Judge: The Respondent Judge, Honorable John H. Cayce, Jr., is the presiding
Judge of the 322nd District Court of Tarrant County by assignment from the
Regional Presiding Judge of the 8th Administrative Judicial Region of Texas.
Respondent’s Challenged Actions: Respondent’s summary denial of the
Relator’s recusal motion was an abuse of discretion because it came after
the failure of the Respondent and Regional Presiding judges to comply with
Rule 18a of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure. The quick decision denied a
motion which was never filed, and the provided reasoning does not comport
with the face of the motion, and was made to prevent mandamus review of
case number 25-046, leaving the Relator without an appellate remedy to
address the issues. 6 Statement of Jurisdiction This Petition for Writ of
Mandamus is originally filed in the Supreme Court of Texas, which possesses
concurrent jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus against assigned judges
pursuant to Article V, Section 3 of the Texas Constitution and Texas

=== PAGE 43 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Government Code § 22.002(a). The compelling reason that this mandamus
has been brought before this Honorable Court prior to being adjudicated in
the Second Court of Appeals is because the error alleged could affect the
four concurrent mandamus petitions pending with the same parties or
otherwise could impede this Court’s ability to properly adjudicate them,
justifying this Mandamus to "enforce [the Court’s] jurisdiction" as permitted
by Tex. Const. art. 5 § 3. The mandamus is necessary to protect or enforce
the Supreme Court's jurisdiction over the pending petitions.1 1 See 25-0361,
25-0367, 25-0378, and 25-0426. 7 ISSUES PRESENTED Issue No. 1: The
Respondent abused his discretion when summarily denying the Relator’s
recusal motion without a hearing and for reasons that do not comport with
the motion filed. Issue No. 2: The compounding issues in this matter reveal a
pattern of conduct that has broader implications for the Texas Legal System
if not resolved and have perpetuated the lack of an appellate remedy. 8
STATEMENT OF FACTS On April 28, 2025, the Relator filed a First Amended
Motion to Recuse, naming Honorable James Munford of the 322nd District
Court of Tarrant County as the respondent judge (MR 1). In the motion,
starting on page 19, the Relator referenced the prior recusal proceedings
initiated on October 7, 2024, highlighting a four-month delay between when
the first motion to recuse was ruled on versus when the judges were re-
instated into the case due to the involvement of the court coordinator. (MR
1.19-1.20). In the next section of the motion underneath the header “IV.
PROCEDURE”, the Relator reiterated the correct recusal process pursuant
to Rule 18a of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure and specifically objected to
any involvement of the court coordinator in the process in the current
recusal proceedings. (MR. 1.20) The following day, after receiving receipt of
the referral orders from the court coordinator of the 322nd District Court of
Tarrant County, including one from Honorable Kaitcer (MR 2, MR 3), the
Relator filed an Objection – Procedural Handling, where he raised attention
to two key issues: “…a judge who was never implicated in the present
recusal motion has inexplicably involved himself without justification, the
court coordinator improperly continues to perform roles for which she has
no lawful authority…” (MR 4.3) On May 6, 2025, an order of assignment was
issued by the Honorable David L. Evans of the 8th Administrative Judicial
Region of Texas appointing “Honorable 9 John H. Cayce, Senior Chief
Justice, Second Court of Appeals to the 322nd District Court of Tarrant
County”, and on the face of this order, the District Clerk, Honorable James
Munford, and the appointed judge were CC’ed (MR 5). The order also stated
“[t]he judge is assigned to preside in the Motion to Recuse the Honorable
James Munford and the Honorable Jeffrey Kaitcer filed by Charles Dustin
Myers on April 25, 2025, and the First Amended Motion to Recuse the
Honorable James Munford and the Honorable Jeffrey Kaitcer filed on April
28, 2025 in Cause Number 322-744263-23…” In response, an Objection to
the Order of Assignment Dated May 6, 2025, was filed complaining of the
same two primary issues: 1) the involvement of the court coordinator and 2)
the erroneous order of referral issued by Hon. Kaitcer. (MR 6) Specifically, it
was stated: “…the Amended Recusal Motion filed on April 28, 2025, named
only the Honorable James Munford as the judge whose recusal was sought.
It did not seek the recusal of the Honorable Jeffrey Kaitcer.” (MR 6.2 at 2)
and: “Despite Respondent’s objections, the Court Coordinator for the 322nd
District Court has continued to be involved in the administrative handling
and communication regarding these recusal proceedings.” (MR 6.2 at 5) On

=== PAGE 44 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
May 15, 2025, the Regional Presiding Judge issued an order overruling the
Relator’s complaints, leading to mandamus petition 25-0426 before this
Honorable Court filed on May 19, 2025 (MR 8). The very next day, two
orders 10 were issued by Honorable John. H. Cayce, Jr., the Respondent
judge named herein, summarily denying the recusal motion (APP 1, APP 2).
Specifically, the first order issued by the Respondent found that Relator’s
motion was: “…based solely on the judge's rulings in the case under Tex. R.
Civ. P. 18a (a) (3), and, even assuming they are not, the motions fail to state
with detail and particularity facts that are within the affiant's personal
knowledge, or on information and belief, that would be admissible in
evidence and that, if proven, would be sufficient to justify recusal of Judge
Munford on any ground specified in Tex. R. Civ. P. 18b (b), as required by
Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a (a)(4).” (APP 1.1) The second order was an order denying
the recusal of Hon. Jeffrey Kaitcer, where it was stated: “After reviewing the
motion and amended motion, as well as the Objection to Order of
Assignment dated May 6, 2025 in which the movant claims that he did not
file a motion to recuse Associate Judge Kaitcer, I find that, based on the
substance of said motions and movant's own admission that he is not
seeking to recuse Associate Judge Kaitcer, the referred motion and amended
motion do not comply with Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a (a).” (APP 2.1) Both orders
were transmitted by the court coordinator via informal email (APP 1.2, APP
2.2). The following day, on May 21, 2025, the Relator filed a Notice of Intent
to File Mandamus, highlighting his intent to challenge these orders and
providing the trial court with an opportunity to correct the error and
schedule the matter for a hearing out of respect (MR 9). Specifically, the
Relator stated that: “The [Relator] correctly invoked Texas Rule of Civil
Procedure 18a(f)(3) by filing a timely objection to procedural deviations in
the administration of the recusal proceedings.” (MR 9.5) 11 Specifically,
after outlining the correct recusal process pursuant to Rule 18a, the Relator
stated that: “The Court’s decision to summarily deny the motion to recuse
Hon. James Munford and also summarily deny a motion that was never filed
raises the question as to what motion the court was reviewing, and if it was
a true and accurate copy of the motion as filed with the clerk of the
court.” (MR 9.6) And highlighted that: “…the ruling on a motion which was
never filed came after the involvement of the court coordinator who serves
at the pleasure of the same Judge subject to recusal.” (MR 9.7) In the
absence of any corrective measures or guidance from the lower court, and
with no active opposition or available appellate remedy, the Relator has now
prepared this petition for a writ of mandamus. This submission represents
the fifth concurrent mandamus petition before this Honorable Court, and the
sixth overall, revealing a pattern. The initial issues remain unresolved, and
five additional issues have been introduced. The only guidance received has
been in the form if nine per curiam denials from the Second Court of
Appeals.2 2 See In re C.M., No. 02-24-00149-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth Apr.
10, 2024) (per curiam) (denial of petition for writ of mandamus & motion for
emergency relief); In re C.M., No. 02-24-00149-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth
Apr. 25, 2024) (per curiam) (denial of motion for rehearing); In re C.M., No.
02-24-00149-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth May 2, 2024) (per curiam) (denial of
motion for en banc reconsideration); In re Charles Dustin Myers, No.
02-25-00164-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth Apr. 11, 2025) (per curiam) (denial
of petition for writ of mandamus & motion for emergency relief); In re
Charles Dustin Myers, No. 02-25-00166-CV (Tex. App.— Fort Worth Apr. 15,

=== PAGE 45 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
2025) (per curiam) (denial of petition for writ of mandamus & emergency
motion to stay proceedings); In re Charles Dustin Myers, No. 02-25-00171-
CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth Apr. 17, 2025) (per curiam) (denial of petition for
writ of mandamus & request for 12 TO THE HONORABLE SUPREME
COURT OF TEXAS: The essence of this case is encapsulated in a single,
profound word: accountability. The journey of the Relator, CHARLES
DUSTIN MYERS, is not one of a mere pro-se litigant fumbling through the
legal system, but rather that of a devoted father and relentless advocate for
his children, M.E.M. and C.R.M. This is a man who, having been stripped of
everything at the outset, stands before this Court with nothing left to lose
and everything to gain by zealously advocating on behalf of his minor
children while upholding Texas law established by this very institution. This
endeavor is not an affront to the judiciary, but a clarion call to recognize the
lengths to which the Relator has gone to draw awareness to the fact that he
has no opponent – only time. That he has not made excuses, but rather
diligently pursued his rights in accordance with Texas laws and procedure to
the best of his ability. This Petition, alongside the concurrent proceedings
docketed under cause numbers 25- 0361, 25-0367, 25-0378, and 25-0426
reflect an ongoing procedural disaster that should have been dismissed
months ago for want of prosecution. Nevertheless, the Relator now turns to
the ripest issue. emergency relief); In re Charles Dustin Myers, No.
02-25-00166-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth Apr. 24, 2025) (per curiam) (denial
of motion for en banc reconsideration); In re Charles Dustin Myers, No.
02-25-00164-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth May 1, 2025) (per curiam) (denial of
motion for en banc reconsideration); In re Charles Dustin Myers, No.
02-25-00171-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth May 1, 2025) (per curiam) (denial of
motion for en banc reconsideration). 13 INTRODUCTION The trial court
below, the Real Party, and all Honorable Respondents collectively named
herein have remained silent on the compounding issues before this Court, a
common theme across all five mandamus petitions. The reason this web of
procedural violations exists to begin with is due to their fraudulent
inducement by the Real Party. Instead of taking judicial action on these
significant claims supported by hundreds of pages of supporting
documentation that remain un-opposed, and instead of acting sua sponte to
prevent the ongoing damage to the parent-child relationship, the Relator’s
business operations, and to effectuate longoverdue justice, each Respondent
named in these petitions has played their part in a broader pattern of
systemic failure that seems to be derived from one singular line of
reasoning: the Relator is representing himself pro-se. This bias has proven
to be so significant that it has affected the decision making process across
two district courts, administrative proceedings, and has condoned silence
from an attorney who has not performed her duties diligently as the Relator
seeks redress. This bias is misplaced and must be set aside so these matters
can be dealt with from a legal perspective in accordance with Texas law. It is
imperative that this Court stay these proceedings which will restore the
rights of the Relator and allow for a comprehensive review of the issues at
hand, as the the Relator possesses no corrective appellate or administrative
remedy. 14 ARGUMENT I. Standard of review Mandamus is an
extraordinary remedy available only in situations involving manifest and
urgent necessity and not for grievances that may be addressed by other
remedies. To obtain mandamus relief in Texas, a relator must satisfy a
wellestablished two-prong test by demonstrating: (1) that the lower court

=== PAGE 46 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
committed a clear abuse of discretion and (2) that there is no adequate
remedy at law, such as a normal appeal. The matter of In re Prudential Ins.
Co. of America, 148 S.W.3d 124, (Tex. 2003) established this standard,
stating: "Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy available 'only in situations
involving manifest and urgent necessity and not for grievances that may be
addressed by other remedies.' (quoting Walker v. Packer, 827 S.W.2d 833,
840 (Tex.1992)). To obtain mandamus relief, the relator must satisfy a two-
prong test. Relator must demonstrate (1) that the lower court committed a
clear abuse of discretion (2) for which there is no adequate remedy at law,
such as a normal appeal." Id. at 839-40. A party establishes that its appellate
remedy is inadequate by showing that it is in real danger of permanently
losing its substantial rights. Perry v. Del Rio, 66 S.W.3d 239, 257 (Tex.2001);
Walker, 827 S.W.2d at 842; Canadian Helicopters, Ltd. v. Wittig, 876 S.W.2d
304, 15 306 (Tex.1994). That is precisely the present matter at hand, as
explained in more detail below. II. The Respondent abused his discretion
when summarily denying the Relator’s recusal motion without a hearing and
for reasons that do not comport with the motion filed. Rule 1 of the Texas
Rules of Civil Procedure states that the proper objective of the rules is "to
obtain a just, fair, equitable and impartial adjudication of the rights of
litigants under established principles of substantive law." See also Taylor v.
Taylor (Tex. App. 2001). When a court fails to comply with Rule 18a, this
would undermine this objective, and the case may be remanded on appeal to
ensure proper procedures are followed. Ex parte Sinegar, 324 S.W.3d 578
(Tex. Crim. App. 2010) illustrates this consequence, where the court
remanded the case "for the trial judge to rule on applicant's motion to
recuse pursuant to Rule 18a(c)." As emphasized in In re Union Pacific
Resources Co., 969 S.W.2d 427 (Tex. 1998) and Spigener v. Wallis, 80 S.W.3d
174 (Tex. App. 2002) both emphasize that the erroneous denial of a recusal
motion "is not fundamental error and can be waived if not raised by proper
motion." This suggests that parties must be diligent in objecting to Rule 18a
violations and preserving the issue for appeal. In other words, parties may
seek mandamus relief to compel compliance with Rule 18a, as demonstrated
in In re Thompson, 330 S.W.3d 411 (Tex. App. 2010) and In re Amir- Sharif,
NUMBER 13-19-00573-CV (Tex. App. Dec 12, 2019). 16 Here, the Relator
objected to the deviations from the clear process of Rule 18a, the court
overruled it, leading to cause number 25-0426 to seek compliance with the
rule, and then after receiving receipt of this challenge, the court proceeded
to use the same rule to summarily deny relief with reasoning that cannot be
attributed to the motion as submitted. As stated in the Notice to Intent to
File Mandamus: “While the Respondent respects this court’s engagement,
the reasoning provided does not comport with the face of the motion. The
bookmarks provided in the PDF alone provide clear grounds for recusal that
are not solely based on the judge’s rulings” (MR 9.6-9.7) The fact that a
second order denying a motion that was never filed was ruled on strongly
supports that the involvement of the court coordinator has caused ambiguity
in the recusal process, lead to orders that do not comport with the
substance of the motion, and the summary denials appear to be an attempt
to prevent mandamus adjudication. When a trial court creates an
appearance of impartiality, which is what has occurred here, the entire
purpose of the recusal proceedings becomes undermined, and the Relator
now faces serious risk of losing his substantial rights to property, the liberty
interest of his children, and the right to a fair and impartial tribunal. The

=== PAGE 47 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
entire purpose of the recusal proceedings were. The bookmarks provided in
the PDF alone provide clear grounds for recusal that are not solely based on
the judge’s rulings. 17 III. The compounding issues in this matter reveal a
pattern of conduct that has broader implications for the Texas Legal System
if not resolved, and have perpetuated the lack of an appellate remedy. There
are a few distinct facts on the face of the record provided that raise
significant concerns about how the recusal process was handled, revealing a
broader pattern that threatens the impartiality of the Texas judiciary. First,
the order of assignment dated May 6, 2025, only had Hon. James Munford,
the Clerk of the Court, and the Respondent named therein CC’ed. (MR 5.1)
If the court truly believed a motion to recuse Honorable Jeff Kaitcer was
filed, then why wouldn’t they have included him in the correspondence?
Second, the order of referral signed by Hon. Jeff Kaitcer stated: “On April
25, 2025, a Motion to Recuse filed by Charles Dustin Myers was delivered to
the Associate Judge of this Court.” Between the person who delivered the
motion, the Associate Judge himself, the Regional Presiding Judge, and the
Assigned Judge – the motion could not have been properly reviewed,
because if it had been – it would have been clearly established that the
motion did not seek the recusal of Hon. Jeff Kaitcer. A cursory review of the
motion establishes this fact in several areas, including on page 22 of the
motion (MR. 1.22), in the Prayer for Relief (MR. 1.34), and in the Affidavit
(MR. 1.36). Finally, because of the way that these recusal proceedings were
handled in comparison to the prior recusal proceedings, serious concerns
regarding the 18 impartiality of the tribunal remain in question. As stated in
the amended motion to recuse as originally filed regarding the prior recusal
proceedings: “James Munford had to amend his initial referral order due to
procedural abnormalities revolving the court coordinator and tampering
with documents due to alleged file size.” (MR 1.12)(emphasis added) This is
not a minor error. This is significant, because the motion as submitted was
stripped of the hyperlinks, bookmarks, and was non text-searchable after the
coordinator became involved, and had its’ affidavit and exhibits removed. It
was only after pointing out these errors that the reasoning changed, and the
motion was then was split into three parts due to the motion’s apparent size
in an amended order of referral. These actions create an appearance of
impartiality and deviates from the standard recusal protocol pursuant to
Rule 18a, which is why the Relator objected to the involvement of the
coordinator in these current proceedings to begin with in the motion itself
(MR 1.20). The court should have sustained the objection and held a hearing
on the recusal matters once the threshold issues were resolved. Instead, it
chose to introduce ambiguity into this process and stray from the rules.
CONCLUSION The record before this Court illuminates a judicial landscape
where procedural safeguards have been systematically dismantled, leaving
in their wake a hollow shell of what due process demands. When a court
coordinator—who serves 19 at the pleasure of the very judge subject to
recusal—inserts herself into proceedings explicitly designed to be free from
such influence, the foundation of impartiality crumbles. When orders
reference motions never filed, deny hearings explicitly required by law, and
mischaracterize the very substance of pleadings properly before the court,
we witness not mere oversight but the collapse of procedural integrity. The
pattern revealed across five concurrent mandamus petitions transcends
isolated error. It manifests a judicial environment where a pro se litigant's
rights have been subordinated to expediency, where silence has become the

=== PAGE 48 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
response to substantiated allegations, and where the machinery of justice
grinds forward without the lubricant of fairness or the compass of law. The
uncontested record demonstrates that at every critical juncture, Rule 18a's
requirements have been selectively applied, creating an impenetrable maze
where appellate remedies vanish into procedural dead ends. What stands
before this Court is not merely a technical violation of recusal procedures,
but the systematic erosion of the bedrock principles upon which our judicial
system rests. When a father seeking nothing more than the protection of his
relationship with his children is met with procedural barriers erected by the
very institutions designed to safeguard those relationships, the damage
extends beyond a 20 single case. It reaches into the public's perception of
whether justice remains accessible to all, regardless of representation
status. The absence of opposition to these proceedings speaks volumes. In
this silence lies tacit acknowledgment that the procedural labyrinth created
below cannot be defended on its merits. The unrefuted record demonstrates
that the Relator has diligently pursued every available avenue for redress,
only to find each path obstructed by deviations from established procedure.
This Court now stands as the final bulwark against the perpetuation of a
process that has strayed so far from its statutory moorings that it threatens
to become unrecognizable. The fact of the matter remains: no response has
been issued. No opposition to the relief being requested, including the
emergency stays submitted in cause numbers 25-0361 and 25-0426, has
been filed. Therefore, the proceedings below should be stayed, not merely to
correct the trajectory of a single case, but to reaffirm that in Texas,
procedural rules are not mere suggestions to be selectively followed, but to
prevent further errors from occurring pending review, to restore the parent-
child bond, and allow for a comprehensive review of all five petitions. The
Relator remains committed to resolving these matters and has filed each
petition with good intention. He seeks to restore what was wrongfully taken
from him, which does not threaten the rights of any participant in this
matter, and would serve the children’s best interests. 21 By staying these
proceedings, Texas’ essential architecture of justice itself is preserved
pending review, and the rights of the Relator would be restored, the public
Policy will be upheld. The integrity of our judicial system and the children in
this matter demand no less. PRAYER WHEREFORE, ALL PREMISES
CONSIDERED, the Relator, CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, respectfully prays
that this Honorable Court provide the following relief: 1. Grant the
emergency stay filed in cause number 25-0426 pending mandamus review to
stay the administrative proceedings; 2. Grant the emergency stay filed in
cause number 25-0361 pending mandamus review to stay the trial court
proceedings; 3. Consider granting the Third Amended Motion to Consolidate
that will follow the submission of this Petition for Writ of Mandamus to
provide a more streamlined review of the issues; 4. After review, issue
mandamus against the Respondent judge named herein, compelling him to
vacate the Orders Summarily Denying the First Amended Motion to Recuse
the Honorable James Munford, thereby preserving this court’s jurisdiction
regarding cause number 25-0426; 22 5. Grant any additional equitable or
special relief that this Honorable Court deems just and proper under the
circumstances. Respectfully submitted, /s/ Charles Dustin Myers CHARLES
DUSTIN MYERS CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM 817-546-3693 PRO-SE
RELATOR 23 Certification (TRAP 52.3(j)) Before me, the undersigned
authority, on this day personally appeared Charles Dustin Myers, Relator,

=== PAGE 49 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
representing himself in his own individual capacity, and upon his oath,
stated that (i) he is self-represented in this cause in the underlying suit,
322nd Judicial District Court, Tarrant County, Cause No.322- 744263-23; (ii)
he has reviewed the Petition for Writ of Mandamus and concluded that every
factual statement in the petition is supported by competent evidence
included in the appendix and record; and (3) he has personal knowledge that
the items in the appendix and record are true and correct copies of
documents material to Relator's claims and are either pleadings that are on
file in the underlying suit, or orders signed by the trial court in the
underlying suit. The Relator states that no live testimony has been adduced
in this matter, nor has any evidence been offered or admitted. 05/26/2025
State of Texas County of Collin County Sworn to and subscribed before me
on 05/26/2025 by Charles Dustin Myers. Electronically signed and notarized
online using the Proof platform. CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS 24 Certificate of
Compliance (TRAP 9.4(i)(3)) I certify that this Petition for Writ of Mandamus
complies with the typeface requirements of Tex. R. App. P. 9.4(e) because it
has been prepared in a conventional typeface no smaller than 14-point for
text and 12-point for footnotes. This document also complies with the word-
count limitations of Tex. R. App. P. 9.4(i), if applicable, because it contains
3431 words. NO. 25-____ IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS IN RE:
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, RELATOR. On Petition for Writ of Mandamus
from the 322nd Judicial District Court, Tarrant County Trial Court Cause
322-744263-23 Original Proceeding Hon. John H. Cayce, Jr. Presiding by
Assignment RELATOR’S APPENDIX Respectfully submitted by: Charles
Dustin Myers, Relator Charles Dustin Myers Chuckdustin12@gmail.com
817-546-3693 Pro-Se 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS TAB# ITEM
TAB1 .................. SUMMARY DENIAL OF RECUSAL - HON. MUNFORD
TAB2 .................... SUMMARY DENIAL OF RECUSAL – HON. KAITCER 26
TAB 1 27 CAUSE NO. 322-744263-23 IN THE MATTER OF THE MARRIAGE
OF MORGAN MICHELE MYERS AND CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS § § § § § § §
AND IN THE INTEREST OF MARA § MYERS AND CAROLINE MYERS, §
MINOR CHILDREN § IN THE DISTRICT COURT TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS
322nd JUDICIAL DISTRICT ORDER SUMMARILY DENYING MOTION FOR
RECUSAL Before me is an Order of Referral from the Honorable James B.
Munford signed April 29, 2025, referring a Motion to Recuse and First
Amended Motion to Recuse filed by Charles Dustin Myers in the above-
referenced matter. After reviewing the motion and amended motion, I find
that the motion and amended motion are based solely on the judge's rulings
in the case under Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a (a) (3), and, even assuming they are not,
the motions fail to state with detail and particularity facts that are within the
affiant's personal knowledge, or on information and belief, that would be
admissible in evidence and that, if proven, would be sufficient to justify
recusal of Judge Munford on any ground specified in Tex. R. Civ. P. 18b (b),
as required by Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a (a)(4). THEREFORE, having concluded that
the motion and amended motion seeking to recuse Judge Munford fail to
comply with Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a (a), I summarily deny the motions in this
matter, without a hearing, pursuant to Tex. R. Civ. SIGNED this 19th day of
May, 2025. 1 Page 1 of 1 322-744263-23 FILED TARRANT COUNTY
5/20/2025 10:22 AM THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK APP 1.1 28
Lindsey K. Baker From: Lindsey K. Baker Sent: Monday, May 19, 2025 3:50
PM To: Subject: FUDSTOP; Cooper Carter; 'CSD-
LEGAL-914@TEXASATTORNEYGENERAL.GOV' Myers 322-744263-23

=== PAGE 50 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Attachments: 322-744263-23 Myers - Order Summarily Denying Motion for
Recusal as to Judge Munford.pdf; 322-744263-23 Myers - Order Summarily
Denying Motion for Recusal as to Judge Kaitcer.pdf Attached is an Order
Summarily Denying Motion for Recusal as to Judge Munford and an Order
Summarily Denying Motion for Recusal as to Judge Kaitcer in the above-
referenced case. Thank you. L~13akev 322nd Court Coordinator Tarrant
County Family Law Center 200 E. Weatherford, 4th floor Fort Worth, Texas
76196 Phone: (817) 884-1597 1 APP 1.2 29 Automated Certificate of
eService This automated certificate of service was created by the efiling
system. The filer served this document via email generated by the efiling
system on the date and to the persons listed below. The rules governing
certificates of service have not changed. Filers must still provide a
certificate of service that complies with all applicable rules. Envelope ID:
101040714 Filing Code Description: No Fee Documents Filing Description:
Status as of 5/20/2025 2:17 PM CST Case Contacts Name CHARLES MYERS
Cooper L.Carter HOLLY HAYES BarNumber Email
chuckdustin12@gmail.com coopercarter@majadmin.com csd-
legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov TimestampSubmitted 5/20/2025
10:22:59 AM 5/20/2025 10:22:59 AM 5/20/2025 10:22:59 AM Status SENT
SENT SENT APP 1.3 30 TAB 2 31 CAUSE NO. 322-744263-23 IN THE
MATTER OF THE MARRIAGE OF MORGAN MICHELE MYERS AND
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS § § § § § § § AND IN THE INTEREST OF MARA §
MYERS AND CAROLINE MYERS, § MINOR CHILDREN § IN THE DISTRICT
COURT TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS 322nd JUDICIAL DISTRICT ORDER
SUMMARILY DENYING MOTION FOR RECUSAL Before me is an Order of
Referral from the Honorable Jeffrey N. Kaitcer signed April 29, 2025,
referring a Motion to Recuse and First Amended Motion to Recuse filed by
Charles Dustin Myers in the above-referenced matter. After reviewing the
motion and amended motion, as well as the Objection to Order of
Assignment dated May 6, 2025 in which the movant claims that he did not
file a motion to recuse Associate Judge Kaitcer, I find that, based on the
substance of said motions and movant's own admission that he is not
seeking to recuse Associate Judge Kaitcer, the referred motion and amended
motion do not comply with Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a (a). THEREFORE, having
concluded that the motion and amended motion referred by Judge Kaitcer do
not comply with Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a (a), I summarily deny the motions in this
matter, without a hearing, pursuant to Tex. R. Civ. P. 18a,(g (3)(A). SIGNED
this 19th day of May, 2025 Page 1 of 1 322-744263-23 FILED TARRANT
COUNTY 5/20/2025 10:22 AM THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK APP
2.1 32 Lindsey K. Baker From: Sent: Lindsey K. Baker Monday, May 19,
2025 3:50 PM To: Subject: FUDSTOP; Cooper Carter; 'CSD-
LEGAL-914@TEXASATTORNEYGENERAL.GOV' Myers 322-744263-23
Attachments: 322-744263-23 Myers - Order Summarily Denying Motion for
Recusal as to Judge Munford.pdf; 322-744263-23 Myers - Order Summarily
Denying Motion for Recusal as to Judge Kaitcer.pdf Attached is an Order
Summarily Denying Motion for Recusal as to Judge Munford and an Order
Summarily Denying Motion for Recusal as to Judge Kaitcer in the above-
referenced case. Thank you. L 13aker 322nd Court Coordinator Tarrant
County Family Law Center 200 E. Weatherford, 4th floor Fort Worth, Texas
76196 Phone: (817) 884-1597 1 APP 2.2 33 Automated Certificate of
eService This automated certificate of service was created by the efiling
system. The filer served this document via email generated by the efiling

=== PAGE 51 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
system on the date and to the persons listed below. The rules governing
certificates of service have not changed. Filers must still provide a
certificate of service that complies with all applicable rules. Envelope ID:
101040714 Filing Code Description: No Fee Documents Filing Description:
Status as of 5/20/2025 2:17 PM CST Case Contacts Name CHARLES MYERS
Cooper L.Carter HOLLY HAYES BarNumber Email
chuckdustin12@gmail.com coopercarter@majadmin.com csd-
legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov TimestampSubmitted 5/20/2025
10:22:59 AM 5/20/2025 10:22:59 AM 5/20/2025 10:22:59 AM Status SENT
SENT SENT APP 2.3 34 Automated Certificate of eService This automated
certificate of service was created by the efiling system. The filer served this
document via email generated by the efiling system on the date and to the
persons listed below: Envelope ID: 101277699 Filing Code Description:
Petition Filing Description: Petition for Writ of Mandamus Status as of
5/27/2025 2:47 PM CST Case Contacts Name Honorable John H.Cayce
Morgan MichelleMyers CHARLES DMYERS Holly Hayes BarNumber Email
thkemp@tarrantcounty.com morganmw02@gmail.com
CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM csd-legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov
TimestampSubmitted 5/27/2025 1:09:35 PM 5/27/2025 1:09:35 PM
5/27/2025 1:09:35 PM 5/27/2025 1:09:35 PM Status SENT SENT SENT
SENT MANDAMUS 2: ASSOCIATE JUDGE KATE STONE 1 NO. 25-_____ IN
THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS IN RE: CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS,
RELATOR. On Petition for Writ of Mandamus to the 233rd Judicial District
Court, Tarrant County Cause No. 233-765358-25 On Mandamus Review from
Cause No. 02-25-00164-CV in the Second District Court of Appeals, Fort
Worth, Texas Hon. Kate Stone Presiding PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS Respectfully submitted by: Charles Dustin Myers
chuckdustin12@gmail.com Tel.: 817-546-3693 6641 Anne Court Watauga,
Texas 76148 FILED 25-0367 5/2/2025 12:02 PM tex-100376468 SUPREME
COURT OF TEXAS BLAKE A. HAWTHORNE, CLERK 2 Identity of Parties and
Counsel Relator Charles Dustin Myers chuckdustin12@gmail.com Real Party
in Interest Morgan Michelle Myers Morganmw02@gmail.com Respondent
Hon. Kate Stone Associate Judge 233rd District Court, Tarrant County, Texas
adwierzbicki@tarrantcountytx.gov Tel.: 817-884-1197 200 E. Weatherford
St. 5th Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-0227 Counsel for Real Party in Interest
Cooper L. Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com Tel.: (817) 926-6211 Marx,
Altman & Johnson 2905 Lackland Road Fort Worth, TX 76116; 3 TABLE OF
CONTENTS Identity of Parties and
Counsel ....................................................................... 2 Table of
Contents ............................................................................................ 3 Index
of Authorities ..................................................................................... 4-5
Statement of the Case ......................................................................................
6 Statement of
Jurisdiction ................................................................................. 7 Issues
Presented .............................................................................................. 8
Statement of Facts ......................................................................................
9-10
Introduction ...................................................................................................
11
Argument .......................................................................................................
12 A. STANDARD OF REVIEW ......................................................... 12-13 B.
JUDICIAL INACTION VIOLATES DUE PROCESS AND FUNDAMENTAL

=== PAGE 52 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
PARENTAL RIGHTS, RESULTING IN PREVENTABLE
HARM ................................................................ 13-15 C. THE REFUSAL TO
ACT AND SUBSEQUENT APPELLATE INACTION ERODE PUBLIC
CONFIDENCE AND DEMAND SUPREME COURT
INTERVENTION ......................................... 15-17 Conclusion and
Prayer ............................................................................. 17-18 Certification
regarding word count ............................................................... 18 Certificate
of service ..................................................................................... 19 4 Index
of Authorities Cases Page Barnes v. State, 832 S.W.2d 424, 426 (Tex. App.—
Houston [1st Dist.] 1992) .................. 15 Creel v. District Atty. for Medina
County, 818 S.W.2d 45, 46 (Tex.
1991) ................................................................. 12 In re Layton, 257 S.W.3d
794, 795 (Tex. App.—Amarillo 2008, orig. proceeding) . 12,16 In re
Prudential Ins. Co. of Am., 148 S.W.3d 124, 135–36(Tex.
2004) ................................................... 12,16 Reno v. Flores, 507 U.S. 292,
301-02 (1993) .................................................................... 13 Troxel v.
Granville, 530 U.S. 57
(2000) ................................................................................. 9,13 Stary v.
Ethridge, 695 S.W.3d 417 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2022) ..................
9,10,16 STATUTES AND RULES Tex. Fam. Code §
105.001 ............................................................................ 14 Tex. Fam. Code §
153.002 ............................................................................ 13
CONSTITUTIONS Tex. Const. art. I, §
13 ................................................................................... 16 U.S. CONST.
amend. XIV,§ 1 ...................................................................... 13 5
SECONDARY SOURCES House Committee on Judiciary and Civil
Jurisprudence (Jan. 2025) ........... 10 Texas Homeschool Coalition Report
(April 2020) .................................... 9,16 6 Statement of the Case Nature of
Underlying Proceeding: This original SAPCR was initiated to escape a
dormant divorce suit to obtain emergency relief for the children named in
this matter on March 19, 2025. There is a closely related case before this
court (25- 0361) that spells out the series of events leading up to the facts
supporting this Mandamus petition. The Second Court of Appeals denied
mandamus relief on April 11, 2025, and denied En Banc Reconsideration on
May 1, 2025. This Mandamus followed. Respondent Judge: The Respondent
Judge, Honorable Kate Stone, is the presiding Associate Judge of the 233rd
District Court of Tarrant County, Texas. Her office is located at Family Law
Center 200 E. Weatherford St. 5th Floor, Fort Worth, TX 76196-0230.
Respondent’s Challenged Inaction: On March 28,2025, the Respondent
refused to hear the Relator’s properly filed emergency TRO and turned him
away from the courtroom. Three weeks later, the emergency materialized,
resulting in a dental emergency sustained by the youngest child named in
this matter. 7 Statement of Jurisdiction STATEMENT OF JURISDICTION This
Honorable Court has jurisdiction to consider this original proceeding for
writ of mandamus. Tex. Const. art. V, § 3(a); Tex. Gov’t Code § 22.002. 8
Issues Presented Issue No. 1: Did the Respondent Judge clearly abuse her
discretion by refusing to hear or rule upon Relator’s properly filed
emergency motion, thereby failing to perform a ministerial duty and leaving
the Relator without an adequate appellate remedy? Issue No. 2: Does the
pattern of judicial inaction in this case, including the appellate court’s
unexplained denial of relief, warrant intervention by this Court to uphold
due process, protect fundamental parental rights, and maintain public

=== PAGE 53 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
confidence in the judiciary? 9 PRIOR STATEMENT OF FACTS
INCORPORATED Relator incorporates the statement of facts, mandamus
record, and appendix filed in the Petition for Writ of Mandamus
(02-25-00164-CV) which was denied per curiam on April 11, 2025, and again
on May 1, 2025, by the Second Court of Appeals. STATEMENT OF FACTS
There is a broader systemic issue facing the Texas judiciary that warrants
this Court’s careful attention. In 2020, an analysis by the Texas Home School
Coalition reviewed all Texas appellate cases involving parental-presumption
challenges (post-Troxel v. Granville) and found courts “failed to protect
parents’ constitutional rights more than 78% of the time” in certain
contested suits.1 That report warned of a “systematic trampling” of parental
rights. In practical terms, family courts have been accused of issuing
temporary orders that strip parents of custody or visitation rights without
the evidentiary safeguards or signed findings usually mandated by statute
(e.g. without findings on endangerment or notice of rights). Such patterns of
perceived overreach erode trust: if parents feel judges routinely ignore law
and deny due process, confidence in “fairness” drops. In late 2023 this Court
agreed to review Stary v. Ethridge, a case where a mother received a
lifetime protective order barring contact with her children, even 1 https://
thsc.org/texas-courts-ignoring-parental-rights/#:~:text=The%20result%3F
10 though her parental rights had not been terminated. The Stary case
highlights dueprocess concerns: critics note that standard protective-order
proceedings use a lower evidentiary standard (preponderance) and do not
include termination-like warnings or appointed counsel. In Stary, what
began as a temporary ex-parte order became a permanent ban without a
termination hearing. The appeal argues this is effectively a hidden
termination of parental rights without the stringent safeguards (clear-
andconvincing evidence, written findings) normally required. Such high-
profile instances—where a parent loses access permanently, yet no
termination suit is ever filed—raise alarm among family law observers and
fuel public anxiety that courts may be misusing protective orders to sidestep
due process. Texas has enjoyed above-50% confidence in courts for decades
(52% in 1998, 60% in 2018) However, recent signals point downward.
National polls (Gallup, NCSC) and Texas legislative testimony suggest
current trust/satisfaction is significantly lower – in the mid-40s to 50s
percentage range.2 High-profile cases (like Stary) and media reports (e.g.
the ACLU’s Jackson case) highlight these problems, reinforcing the
perception that Texas family courts sometimes act without accountability. In
this case, the problem rests with the judiciary itself. The important question
here is whether this Court will act and address the issues presented below. 2
HOUSE COMMITTEE ON JUDICIARY AND CIVIL JURISPRUDENCE
JANUARY 2025 11 INTRODUCTION Justice dies in silence. For fourteen
months, this father has shouted into judicial chambers only to receive
echoes of inaction and per curiam denials devoid of explanation. This is no
ordinary dispute—it is a test of judicial integrity. When a trial court
abdicates its duty and appellate courts hide behind unexplained refusals to
intervene, the system itself fractures. The issues presented go beyond the
merits of a single mandamus petition. The record speaks loudly and clearly
for itself. But the deeper wound here is systemic: a court system that
permits fundamental rights—parental rights at the core of our constitutional
values—to be stripped without notice, hearing, or statutory findings,
undermines the rule of law itself. See 25-0361. The silence of these courts

=== PAGE 54 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
does more than compound procedural errors. It emboldens litigants who
exploit judicial complacency, incentivizes deceitful pleadings, and breeds
public distrust. Worse, it leaves vulnerable children trapped in uncertainty,
becoming collateral damage in a legal system that has lost sight of its
purpose. This case demands attention—not merely for the rights of one
father, but for the legitimacy and accountability of Texas courts as
protectors of the most sacred relationships and freedoms we possess. The
refusal to act by the courts below have resulted in a direct injury to the child
which could have been prevented. 12 ARGUMENT A. STANDARD OF
REVIEW Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, reserved for situations
where a trial court clearly abuses its discretion and no adequate remedy by
appeal exists. In re Prudential Ins. Co. of Am., 148 S.W.3d 124, 135–36 (Tex.
2004). A core principle underpinning mandamus relief is the obligation of a
trial court to act on matters properly brought before it. When a motion, such
as Relator’s emergency request for a Temporary Restraining Order (TRO),
has been properly filed and presented to the trial court, the act of
considering and ruling upon that motion is not discretionary; it is ministerial
in nature. See In re Layton, 257 S.W.3d 794, 795 (Tex. App.—Amarillo 2008,
orig. proceeding) ("When a motion is properly filed and pending before a
trial court, the act of considering and ruling upon that motion is a
ministerial duty."). Mandamus is the appropriate mechanism to compel a
trial court to fulfill this fundamental duty. Id. Furthermore, fundamental due
process, enshrined in both the U.S. and Texas Constitutions, demands that
parties be afforded a meaningful opportunity to be heard before a court
grants or denies relief, particularly when fundamental rights like parenting
are implicated. Creel v. District Atty. for Medina County, 818 S.W.2d 45, 46
(Tex. 1991). In this case, the record demonstrates that Relator properly filed
and attempted to present an emergency TRO concerning the safety and
welfare of his child. The 13 Respondent Judge, however, refused even to
hear the matter, turning the Relator away from the courtroom on March 28,
2025. This outright refusal to consider a properly filed emergency motion
constitutes a failure to perform a clear ministerial duty. As established in
Layton, such inaction warrants mandamus relief. The subsequent denial of
mandamus by the Second Court of Appeals, without explanation, effectively
endorses this dereliction of duty, leaving Relator with no adequate remedy
by appeal for the trial court's refusal to act on an urgent matter directly
impacting child safety. B. JUDICIAL INACTION VIOLATES DUE PROCESS
AND FUNDAMENTAL PARENTAL RIGHTS, RESULTING IN PREVENTABLE
HARM The Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbids any
State from depriving a person of life, liberty, or property without due
process of law. U.S. CONST. amend. XIV, § 1. This guarantee encompasses
both procedural fairness and substantive protections against governmental
infringement upon fundamental liberty interests. Reno v. Flores, 507 U.S.
292, 301-02 (1993). Among the most fundamental liberty interests
recognized by the Supreme Court is the right of parents to direct the
upbringing and care of their children. Troxel v. Granville, 530 U.S. 57, 65
(2000). Texas law echoes these protections, mandating that the best interest
of the child is the primary consideration in custody matters (Tex. Fam. Code
§ 153.002) and requiring procedural safeguards before parental rights are
restricted. 14 Here, the Respondent Judge’s refusal to hear Relator’s
emergency TRO on March 28, 2025, represents a profound violation of these
constitutional and statutory mandates. By turning Relator away and failing

=== PAGE 55 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
even to schedule a hearing on his properly filed motion alleging imminent
risk to his child, the court denied him the basic procedural due process
required under Creel. This was not a mere delay; it was a complete denial of
the opportunity to be heard on an emergency matter specifically provided
for under the Texas Family Code (See Tex. Fam. Code § 105.001, authorizing
temporary orders for child safety). While Texas law allows for ex parte TROs
under certain urgent circumstances, it simultaneously requires that a
hearing be set promptly, typically within 14 days (See TRCP 680), to ensure
due process is ultimately satisfied. The Respondent’s refusal to even
consider the TRO application flouted these principles entirely. This inaction
occurred despite Relator presenting a justiciable emergency concerning his
child's welfare. The court’s refusal stands in stark contrast to its apparent
swiftness in acting upon the Real Party in Interest's initial application, which
Relator contends was based on false pretenses. The court accepted that
initial emergency filing seemingly without scrutiny, removing Relator from
his home and restricting access to his children based on allegations later
proven questionable, yet refused to even entertain Relator’s subsequent,
legitimate 15 emergency concerning actual harm. This differential treatment
further underscores the arbitrary nature of the refusal and the denial of
equal protection. The consequences of this judicial dereliction were not
hypothetical; they were tragically real. As Relator warned, the delay
precipitated by the court's refusal to act allowed the foreseen harm to
materialize: the youngest child suffered a preventable dental emergency
requiring intervention. This direct injury, stemming from the court's failure
to perform its ministerial duty to hear the emergency motion, highlights the
inadequacy of any remedy other than mandamus. An appeal after final
judgment cannot undo the harm suffered by the child or rectify the profound
denial of process experienced by Relator when faced with an immediate
threat to his child's well-being. C. THE REFUSAL TO ACT AND
SUBSEQUENT APPELLATE INACTION ERODE PUBLIC CONFIDENCE AND
DEMAND SUPREME COURT INTERVENTION The issues presented
transcend the specific facts of this case and touch upon the broader integrity
of the Texas judiciary. When a trial court refuses to perform its clear
ministerial duty to hear and rule upon a properly filed emergency motion
alleging child endangerment, see Barnes v. State, 832 S.W.2d 424, 426 (Tex.
App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 1992, orig. proceeding) (confirming the ministerial
duty to consider and rule on properly filed motions), and the appellate court
subsequently denies mandamus relief without explanation, it sends a chilling
16 message. Such inaction suggests the courthouse doors may be closed to
those seeking urgent protection for children, potentially violating the Texas
Constitution’s Open Courts Provision, which guarantees access to the courts
for redress of injuries. Tex. Const. art. I, § 13. This apparent disregard for
mandatory duties and fundamental rights fuels the perception, noted in the
original petition referencing the Texas Home School Coalition report and the
Stary v. Ethridge case, that courts may sometimes prioritize expediency or
other factors over due process and parental rights. The Respondent Judge's
refusal to act, followed by the perfunctory denial from the Second Court of
Appeals, creates an accountability vacuum. It allows a clear dereliction of a
ministerial duty—the duty to hear and rule, In re Layton, 257 S.W.3d 794,
795 (Tex. App.—Amarillo 2008, orig. proceeding)—to stand uncorrected,
despite the direct and preventable harm caused to the child. While
mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, its purpose includes compelling

=== PAGE 56 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
public officials to perform ministerial acts and correcting clear abuses of
discretion where no adequate appellate remedy exists. See In re Prudential
Ins. Co. of Am, 148 S.W.3d 124, 135-36 (Tex. 2004). When judicial inaction
directly leads to irreparable harm, particularly to a child, the remedy by
appeal is inherently inadequate. Id. at 136. This Court's intervention is
necessary not only to rectify the specific injustice suffered by Relator and his
child but also to reaffirm the 17 fundamental principle that Texas courts
must provide a meaningful forum for litigants, especially in emergencies
involving child safety, and must perform their ministerial duties without bias
or arbitrary refusal. The unexplained silence from the lower courts cannot
substitute for adherence to the rule of law and undermines the public trust
essential for the judiciary's legitimacy. Mandamus relief is essential to
compel the Respondent Judge to fulfill her duty and to restore a measure of
faith in the judicial process. CONCLUSION AND PRAYER This is not merely
a dispute over procedural timelines; it is a plea for the enforcement of
fundamental legal obligations and the protection of a children’s well-being.
The Respondent Judge's refusal to even consider Relator's emergency
motion, particularly when contrasted with the sister court's earlier actions
from the sister court that removed Relator from his home based on false
allegations, demands correction. The integrity of the judicial process
requires that courts fulfill their basic duties, especially when immediate
risks to children are alleged. Failure to do so constitutes a clear abuse of
discretion warranting mandamus relief. Therefore, all premises considered,
the Relator prays that this Honorable Court: 1. Reverse and order that the
trial court: (1) hear the emergency TRO filed on March 28, 2025; 18 2.
Provide any further relief to the Relator the court deems necessary
Respectfully submitted, /s/ Charles Dustin Myers Charles Dustin Myers, Pro
Se 6641 Anne Court Watauga, Texas 76148 Email:
chuckdustin12@gmail.com Phone: 817-546-3693 RELATOR CERTIFICATION
REGARDING WORD COUNT I certify that this Petition for Writ of Mandamus
complies with the typeface requirements of Tex. R. App. P. 9.4(e) because it
has been prepared in a conventional typeface no smaller than 14-point for
text and 12-point for footnotes. This document also complies with the word-
count limitations of Tex. R. App. P. 9.4(i), if applicable, because it contains
2,002 words, excluding any parts exempted by Tex. R. App. P. 9.4(i)(1). 19
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE Pursuant to Rule 9.5(d) of the Texas Rules of
Appellate Procedure, this Petition for Mandamus has been served on all
parties of record on May 2nd, 2025. Real Party in Interest Morgan Michelle
Myers morganmw02@gmail.com Respondent Hon. Kate Stone Associate
Judge 233rd District Court, Tarrant County, Texas
adwierzbicki@tarrantcountytx.gov Tel.: 817-884-1197 200 E. Weatherford
St. 5th Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-0227 Counsel for Real Party in Interest
Cooper L. Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com Tel.: (817) 926-6211 Marx,
Altman & Johnson 2905 Lackland Road Fort Worth, TX 76116; STATE OF
TEXAS COUNTY OF TARRANT AFFIDAVIT CERTIFYING RELATOR’S
APPENDIX BEFORE ME, the undersigned authority, personally appeared
Charles Dustin Myers, who, being duly sworn by me, stated upon oath as
follows: 1. My name is Charles Dustin Myers. I am over the age of eighteen,
competent to make this affidavit, and I am the Relator in the abovecaptioned
cause. I have personal knowledge of the facts stated herein, and each is true
and correct. 2. I am familiar with the documents included in Relator’s
Appendix submitted in support of the Petition for Writ of Mandamus filed in

=== PAGE 57 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
the Second Court of Appeals at Fort Worth, Texas, arising from cause
number 233-765358-25 in the 233rd District Court of Tarrant County, Texas
and hereby certify that each of the documents contained in Relator’s
Appendix is a true and correct copy of the original document under penalty
of perjury. 3. The Appendix is submitted in accordance with Texas Rule of
Appellate Procedure 52.3(k)(1)(A) and is tendered as a proper record of the
matters complained of in the mandamus proceeding. FURTHER AFFIANT
SAYETH NOT. __________________________________ Charles Dustin Myers
Relator State of Florida County of Bay County This foregoing instrument
was acknowledged before me by means of online notarization, this
04/10/2025 by Charles Dustin Myers. Amber Riggs Notarized remotely
online using communication technology via Proof. No. 25-___ IN THE
SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS IN RE: CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, RELATOR.
Original Proceeding Arising Out of the 233rd Judicial District Court of
Tarrant County, Texas Cause Number 233-765358-25 Hon. Kate Stone
Presiding RELATOR’S APPENDIX Respectfully submitted by: Charles Dustin
Myers chuckdustin12@gmail.com Tel.: 817-546-3693 6641 Anne Court
Watauga, Texas 76148 Pro-se Relator NAME TAB Order setting hearing for
TRO ........................................................................ 1 Temporary Orders
rendered 03/14/2024 ......................................................... 2 Tex. Fam. Code §
6.407 – Joinder of SAPCR ................................................ 3 Tex. Fam. Code §
155.001 – Continuing, Exclusive Jurisdiction .................. 4 Tex. Const. art. I,
§ 19 – Due Course of Law ................................................. 5 Tex. R. Civ. P. §
21(f)(11) ............................................................................... 6 Tex. R. Civ. P. §
59 – Exhibits and Pleadings ................................................. 7 TAB 1 Order
Setting Hearing for TRO RELATOR'S APPENDIX APP 1 NOTICE: THIS
DOCUMENT CONTAINS SENSITIVE DATA FM-FH-101-Temporary
Restraining Order and Order Setting Hearing (Rev. 01-2021)
©TexasLawHelp.org Page 1 of 4 Cause Number Print cause number and
other court information exactly as it appears on the petition filed in this
case. In the interest of: In the: (check one): 1. 2. District Court 3. Court
Number County Court at Law 4. 5. Child(ren) County, Texas Temporary
Restraining Order and Order Setting Hearing On _____________________
Petitioner, ______________________________________ Date Your full name
presented a motion for a temporary restraining order to this Court.
Respondent’s name is: ______________________________________________.
Respondent’s full name The child(ren) who are the subject of this suit are:
Child’s name Date of Birth Gender 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 1. The Court finds that the
issuance of a temporary restraining order is necessary to protect the
child(ren) who are the subject of this suit. IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED that
the Clerk of this Court issue a temporary restraining order that immediately
restrains Respondent from doing the following: (check off each restraint that
the Judge orders at the hearing) Threatening the child(ren) with imminent
bodily injury. (See Texas Family Code 6.501(a)(5)) Causing bodily injury to
the child(ren). (See Texas Family Code 6.501(a)(4)) Disturbing the peace of
the child(ren). (See Texas Family Code 105.001(a)(3)) 233-765358-25 FILED
TARRANT COUNTY 3/24/2025 4:42 PM THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK APP 1.1 233-765358-25 M.E.M. C.R.M. 233 TARRANT 03/24/2025
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS FM-FH-101-
Temporary Restraining Order and Order Setting Hearing (Rev. 01-2021)
©TexasLawHelp.org Page 2 of 4 Removing the child(ren) beyond a
geographic area identified by the Court. (See Texas Family Code 105.001(a)

=== PAGE 58 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
(4)) Withdrawing the child(ren) from the school or day-care facility where
they are presently enrolled without the written consent of Petitioner. Hiding
or secreting the child(ren) from Petitioner. Engaging in any criminal activity
while the child(ren) are in the Respondent’s possession. Using alcohol or
illegal drugs 24 hours prior to or during his/her possession of the child(ren).
2. The Court further finds that it clearly appears from specific facts shown
by Petitioner’s affidavit that immediate and irreparable injury or harm will
result to the child(ren) before notice can be served and a hearing can be
held. The injury or harm to the child(ren) is:
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
The above injury or harm would be irreparable because:
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
The temporary restraining order is granted without notice because:
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
APP 1.2 The children are suffering daily from their father being prevented
access to the marital home. The Respondent has prevented access since
March 6, 2024, knowing the Petitioner's need for the residence to work. This
has left the children without the care of either parent for the majority of the
time, and are being told that the divorce has been finalized and that their
father is a bad person. Prior to the Respondent's removal, the Children were
cared for both emotionally and financially by the Petitioner. The Respondent
knowingly and willingly sabotaged this relationship to further her own
agenda with a separate relationship. The emotional well-being and stability
of the children have been destroyed, and their stable life has been
dismantled by the Respondent in bad faith. There exists no legal basis for
the current situation to persist, and the children are already showing signs
of distress, emotional trauma, and are beginning to struggle academically.
The children need the Petitioner's stable, nurturing care during this difficult
time, and they will soon lose all access to their Father who will be homless
given the circumstances. The Petitioner has been fighting for over a year to
get back into his residence to no avail. The Respondent has refused to
participate, and continues to prioritize her new relationship over the
children. Notice would only spark more deceptive legal actions from the
Respondent to try and subvert justice. FM-FH-101-Temporary Restraining
Order and Order Setting Hearing (Rev. 01-2021) ©TexasLawHelp.org Page 3
of 4
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________ It
is therefore ordered that: The bodies of the child(ren) be attached and that
the child(ren) be placed in the possession of: The Petitioner The following
person: _________________________________________________ (See Texas Family

=== PAGE 59 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Code 105.001(c)(1-2)) Respondent is excluded from possession of or access
to the child(ren) until notice can be served and a hearing can be held.
Respondent’s possession of or access to the child(ren) is limited as follows
until notice can be served and a hearing can be held: Respondent is
excluded from unsupervised possession of the child(ren). Possession of the
child(ren) shall be supervised by: Any person approved in writing by
Petitioner A person approved by the Court:
___________________________________ Respondent is excluded from overnight
visits with the child(ren). Any day visits shall begin no earlier than
___________ a.m. and shall end no later than ____________ p.m. Respondent
may not allow the child(ren) to have any contact with the following
person(s):
______________________________________________________________________
Respondent may not engage in the following acts during any periods of
possession or access:
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________ 3. This
restraining order is effective immediately and will continue in full force and
effect until it expires by its terms within a time period determined by the
Court (not to exceed 14 days), unless within that time frame the order is
extended for good cause shown, or unless the Respondent consents that it
may be extended for a longer period. See Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 680.
This restraining order expires on the following date:
_______________________________. THE VIOLATION OF A TEMPORARY
RESTRAINING ORDER IS PUNISHABLE BY CONTEMPT AND THE ORDER
IS SUBJECT TO AND ENFORCEABLE UNDER CHAPTER 157 OF THE
TEXAS FAMILY CODE. See Texas Family Code 105.001(f). APP 1.3 Petitioner
will be able to surprise the children by picking them up from school, and
they will finally be reuinted with their father, something that they anticipate
and desperately need. The Respondent has shown no ability to act in the
children's best interests. DAMEN GAULT KAZLAUSKAS Respondent must
not forbid the Petitioner from access to the marital home. Respondent must
not disturb the peace of the children. Respondent must maintain an
amicable candor towards all members of the household. Both parties must
maintain the status quo as it was prior to the unlawful lockout of Petitioner
which occurred on March 6, 2024. 2025/04/12 FM-FH-101-Temporary
Restraining Order and Order Setting Hearing (Rev. 01-2021)
©TexasLawHelp.org Page 4 of 4 4. The requirement of a bond is waived. See
Texas Family Code 105.001(d). Order to Appear IT IS ORDERED that
Petitioner’s application for temporary injunction and temporary orders be
scheduled for a hearing at the earliest possible date and that the Clerk of
this Court issue notice to Respondent to appear in person before this Court
at the following date, time, and place (as required by Texas Rule of Civil
Procedure 680): Date: __________________________________________________
Time:__________________________________________________ Address:
_______________________________________________
_______________________________________________________ The purpose of the
hearing is to determine whether the Court should order the following
temporary relief while this case is pending: a. Convert the preceding
temporary restraining order into a temporary injunction. b. Enter temporary
orders for the safety and welfare of the child(ren), including but not limited

=== PAGE 60 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
to conservatorship, possession and access. c. Enter any other orders that are
necessary for the safety and welfare of the child(ren). SIGNED on
_____________________, 20______, at ________________ __.m.
_____________________________ PRESIDING JUDGE APP 1.4 Automated
Certificate of eService This automated certificate of service was created by
the efiling system. The filer served this document via email generated by the
efiling system on the date and to the persons listed below. The rules
governing certificates of service have not changed. Filers must still provide
a certificate of service that complies with all applicable rules. Envelope ID:
98863782 Filing Code Description: Proposed Order Filing Description:
PROPOSED ORDER Status as of 3/26/2025 3:31 PM CST Case Contacts
Name CHARLES MYERS MORGAN MICHELLEMYERS BarNumber Email
chuckdustin12@gmail.com MORGANMW02@GMAIL.COM
TimestampSubmitted 3/25/2025 2:10:47 PM 3/25/2025 2:10:47 PM Status
NOT SENT NOT SENT APP 1.5 TAB 2 Temporary Orders rendered
03/14/2024 in cause number 322-744263-23 RELATOR'S APPENDIX APP 2
IN THE MATTER OF THE MARRIAGE OF MORGAN MYERS AND CHARLES
MYERS AND IN THE INTEREST OF CAUSE NO. 322-744263-23 IN THE
DISTRICT COURT 322ND JUDICIAL DISTRICT MARA MYERS AND
CAROLINE MYERS, CHILDREN § § § § § § § § § TARRANTCOUNTY,TEXAS
TEMPORARY ORDERS 1JC On February JI, 2024, the Court heard
Petitioner's motion for temporary orders. Appearances Petitioner, MORGAN
MYERS, appeared in person and through attorney of record, Cooper L.
Carter, and announced ready and signed an Associate Judge's Report
regarding Agreed Temporary Orders. Respondent, CHARLES MYERS,
appeared in person and through attorney of record, Daniel Bacalis, and
announced ready and signed an Associate Judge's Report regarding Agreed
Temporary Orders. The parties have agreed to the terms of this order as
evidenced by the signatures below. Jurisdiction The Court, after examining
the record and the agreement of the parties and hearing the evidence and
argument of counsel, finds that all necessary prerequisites of the law have
been legally satisfied and that the Court has jurisdiction of this case and of
all the parties. Children The following orders are for the safety and welfare
and in the best interest of the 322-744263-23 FILED TARRANT COUNTY
3/26/2024 3:19 PM THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK A CERTIFIED
COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz APP 2.1 A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz following children: Name: Sex:
Birth date: Home state: Name: Sex: Birth date: Home state: Conservatorship
MARAMYERS Female 7 years Texas CAROLINE MYERS Female 5 years
Texas IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS are
appointed Temporary Joint Managing Conservators of the following children:
MARA MYERS and CAROLINE MYERS IT IS ORDERED that, at all times,
MORGAN MYERS, as a parent temporary joint managing conservator, shall
have the following rights: 1. the right to receive information from any other
conservator of the children concerning the health, education, and welfare of
the children; 2. the right to confer with the other parent to the extent
possible before making a decision concerning the health, education, and
welfare of the children; 3. the right of access to medical, dental,
psychological, and educational records of the children; 4. the right to
consult with a physician, dentist, or psychologist of the children; 5. the right

=== PAGE 61 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
to consult with school officials concerning the children's welfare and
educational status, including school activities; 6. the right to attend school
activities, including school lunches, performances, and field trips; 7. the
right to be designated on the children's records as a person to be notified in
case of an emergency; 8. the right to consent to medical, dental, and
surgical treatment during an APP 2.2 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz emergency involving an immediate danger to
the health and safety of the children; and 9. the right to manage the estates
of the children to the extent the estates have been created by the parent's
family or by the parent, other than by the community or joint property of the
parent. IT IS ORDERED that, at all times, CHARLES MYERS, as a parent
temporary joint managing conservator, shall have the following rights: 1. the
right to rec.eive information from any other conservator of the children
concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children; 2. the right to
confer with the other parent to the extent possible before making a decision
concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children; 3. the right of
access to medical, dental, psychological, and educational records of the
children; 4. the right to consult with a physician, dentist, or psychologist of
the children; 5. the right to consult with school officials concerning the
children's welfare and educational status, including school activities; 6. field
trips; the right to attend school activities, including school lunches,
performances, and 7. the right to be designated on the children's records as
a person to be notified in case of an emergency; 8. the right to consent to
medical, dental, and surgical treatment during an emergency involving an
immediate danger to the health and safety of the children; and 9. the right
to manage the estates of the children to the extent the estates have been
created by the parent's family or by the parent, other than by the community
or joint property of the parent. IT IS ORDERED that, at all times, MORGAN
MYERS and CHARLES MYERS, as parent temporary joint managing
conservators, shall each have the following duties: 1. the duty to inform the
other conservator of the children in a timely manner of significant
information concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children; 2.
the duty to inform the other conservator of the children if the conservator
resides with for at least thirty days, marries, or intends to marry a person
who the conservator knows is APP 2.3 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz registered as a sex offender under chapter 62
of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure or is currently charged with an
offense for which on conviction the person would be required to register
under that chapter. IT IS ORDERED that notice of this information shall be
provided to the other conservator of the children as soon as practicable, but
not later than the fortieth day after the date the conservator of the children
begins to reside with the person or on the tenth day after the date the
marriage occurs, as appropriate. IT IS ORDERED that the notice must
include a description of the offense that is the basis of the person's
requirement to register as a sex offender or of the offense with which the
person is charged. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR COMMITS AN OFFENSE
PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF THE CONSERVATOR
FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE; 3. the duty to inform the other
conservator of the children if the conservator establishes a residence with a
person who the conservator knows is the subject of a final protective order

=== PAGE 62 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
sought by an individual other than the conservator that is in effect on the
date the residence with the person is established. IT IS ORDERED that
notice of this information shall be provided to the other conservator of the
children as soon as practicable, but not later than the thirtieth day after the
date the conservator establishes residence with the person who is the
subject of the final protective order. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR
COMMITS AN OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF
THE CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE; 4. the duty to
inform the other conservator of the children if the conservator resides with,
or allows unsupervised access to a child by, a person who is the subject of a
final protective order sought by the conservator after the expiration of sixty-
day period following the date the final protective order is issued. IT IS
ORDERED that notice of this information shall be provided to the other
conservator of the children as soon as practicable, but not later than the
ninetieth day after the date the final protective order was issued. WARNING:
A CONSERVATOR COMMITS AN OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C
MISDEMEANOR IF THE CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS
NOTICE; and 5. the duty to inform the other conservator of the children if
the conservator is the subject of a final protective order issued after the date
of the order establishing conservatorship. IT IS ORDERED that notice of this
information shall be provided to the other conservator of the children as
soon as practicable, but not later than the thirtieth day after the date the
final protective order was issued. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR COMMITS
AN OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF THE
CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE. IT IS ORDERED that,
during her periods of possession, MORGAN MYERS, as parent temporary
joint managing conservator, shall have the following rights-and duties: 1. the
duty of care, control, protection, and reasonable discipline of the children; 2.
the duty to support the children, including providing the children with
clothing, food, shelter, and medical and dental care not involving an invasive
procedure; APP 2.4 4 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz 3. the right to consent for the children to medical and dental care not
involving an invasive procedure; and 4. the right to direct the moral and
religious training of the children. IT IS ORDERED that, during his periods of
possession, CHARLES MYERS, as parent temporary joint managing
conservator, shall have the following rights and duties: 1. the duty of care,
control, protection, and reasonable discipline of the children; 2. the duty to
support the children, including providing the children with clothing, food,
shelter, and medical and dental care not involving an invasive procedure; 3.
the right to consent for the children to medical and dental care not involving
an invasive procedure; and 4. the right to direct the moral and religious
training of the children. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS, as a parent
temporary joint managmg conservator, shall have the following rights and
duty: 1. the independent right to consent to medical, dental, and surgical
treatment involving invasive procedures; 2. the independent right to consent
to psychiatric and psychological treatment of the children; 3. the
independent right to receive and give receipt for periodic payments for the
support of the children and to hold or disburse these funds for the benefit of
the children; 4. the independent right to represent the children in legal
action and to make other decisions of substantial legal significance
concerning the children; 5. the independent right to consent to marriage

=== PAGE 63 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
and to enlistment in the armed forces of the United States; 6. the
independent right to make decisions concerning the children's education; 7.
except as provided by section 264.0111 of the Texas Family Code, the
independent right to the services and earnings of the children; 8. except
when a guardian of the children's estates or a guardian or attorney ad litem
has been appointed for the children, the independent right to act as an
agent of the children in APP 2.5 5 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz relation to the children's estates if the children's action is
required by a state, the United States, or a foreign government; 9. the right,
subject to the agreement of the other conservator, to apply for passports for
the children, to renew the children's passports, and to maintain possession
of the children's passports; and 10. the independent duty to manage the
estates of the children to the extent the estates have been created by the
community or joint property of the parent. IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES
MYERS, as a parent temporary joint managing conservator, shall have the
following rights and duty: 1. the independent right to consent to medical,
dental, and surgical treatment involving invasive procedures; 2. the
independent right to consent to psychiatric and psychological treatment of
the children; 3. the independent right to receive and give receipt for
periodic payments for the support of the children and to hold or disburse
these funds for the benefit of the children; 4. the independent right to
represent the children in legal action and to make other decisions of
substantial legal significance concerning the children; 5. the independent
right to consent to marriage and to enlistment in the armed forces of the
United States; 6. the independent right to make decisions concerning the
children's education; 7. except as provided by section 264.0111 of the Texas
Family Code, the independent right to the services and earnings of the
children; 8. except when a guardian of the children's estates or a guardian
or attorney ad I item has been appointed for the children, the independent
right to act as an agent of the children in relation to the children's estates if
the children's action is required by a state, the United States, or a foreign
government; 9. the right, subject to the agreement of the other conservator,
to apply for passports for the children, to renew the children's passports,
and to maintain possession of the children's passports; and 10. the
independent duty to manage the estates of the children to the extent the
estates have been created by the community or joint property of the parent.
APP 2.6 6 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT
CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz
Notwithstanding any provision in this order to the contrary, IT IS ORDERED
that MORGAN MYERS shall have the exclusive right to enroll the children in
school. Each conservator, during that conservator's period of possession, is
ORDERED to ensure the children's attendance in the schools in which
MORGAN MYERS has enrolled the children. The Court finds that, in
accordance with section 153.001 of the Texas Family Code, it is the public
policy of Texas to assure that children will have frequent and continuing
contact with parents who have shown the ability to act in the best interest of
the child; to provide a safe, stable, and nonviolent environment for the child;
and to encourage parents to share in the rights and duties of raising their
child after the parents have separated or dissolved their marriage. IT IS
ORDERED that the primary residence of the children shall be within Tarrant
County, Texas, , and counties contiguous to Tarrant County, Texas, and the

=== PAGE 64 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
parties shall not remove the children from Tarrant County, Texas, and
counties contiguous to Tarrant County, Texas for the purpose of changing
the primary residence of the children until this geographic restriction is
modified by further order of the court of continuing jurisdiction or by a
written agreement that is signed by the parties and filed with that court.
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this temporary order, IT IS
ORDERED that all information of which a conservator is required to notify
the other conservator and all documents and information that a conservator
is required to provide to the other conservator shall be sent in the following
manner: a. delivery to the recipient at the recipient's electronic mail address
as follows or to such other electronic mail address subsequently designated
by the recipient: MORGAN MYERS morganm202@gmail.com APP 2.7 7 A
CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz CHARLES
MYERS chuckdusticl2@gmail.com and in the event of any change in a
recipient's electronic mail address, that recipient is ORDERED to notify the
other recipient of such change in writing within twenty-four hours after the
change. If a party applies for a passport for the children, that party, is
ORDERED to notify the other party of that fact no later than 10 days after
the application. IT IS ORDERED that if a parent's consent is required for the
issuance or renewal of a passport, that parent shall provide that consent in
writing no later than ten days after receipt of the consent documents, unless
the parent has good cause for withholding that consent. Possession and
Access IT IS ORDERED that nothing in this order shall supercede any term
of any protective order or condition of bond, probation, or parole. 1.
Standard Possession Order IT IS ORDERED that each conservator shall
comply with all terms and conditions of this Standard Possession Order. IT
IS ORDERED that this Standard Possession Order is effective immediately
and applies to all periods of possession occurring on and after the date the
Court signs this Standard Possession Order. IT IS, THEREFORE, ORDERED:
(a) Definitions 1. In this Standard Possession Order "school" means the
elementary or secondary school in which the child is enrolled or, if the child
is not enrolled in an elementary or secondary school, the public school
district in which the child primarily resides. 2. In this Standard Possession
Order "child" includes each child, whether one or more, who is a subject of
this suit while that child is under the age of eighteen years and not
otherwise emancipated. (b) Mutual Agreement or Specified Terms for
Possession IT IS ORDERED that the conservators shall have possession of
the child at times mutually agreed to in advance by the parties, and, in the
absence of APP 2.8 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz mutual agreement, it is ORDERED that the conservators shall have
possession of the child under the specified terms set out in this Standard
Possession Order. (c) When Parents Reside 50 Miles or Less Apart Except as
otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, when
CHARLES MYERS resides 50 miles or less from the primary residence of the
child, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as
follows: 1. Weekends - On weekends that occur during the regular school
term, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed, on the
first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at the time the child's
school resumes after the weekend. On weekends that do not occur during
the regular school term, beginning at 6:00 P.M., on the first, third, and fifth

=== PAGE 65 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Friday of each month and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the following Sunday. 2.
Weekend Possession Extended by a Holiday - Except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student holiday or a teacher in-
service day that falls on a Friday during the regular school term, as
determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a federal, state,
or local holiday that falls on a Friday during the summer months when
school is not in session, that weekend period of possession shall begin at the
time the child's school is regularly dismissed on the Thursday immediately
preceding the student holiday or teacher in-service day and 6:00 p.m. on the
Thursday immediately preceding the federal, state, or local holiday during
the summer months. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES
MYERS ends on or is immediately followed by a student holiday or a teacher
in-service day that falls on a Monday during the regular school term, as
determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a federal, state,
or local holiday that falls on a Monday during the summer months when
school is not in session, that weekend period of possession shall end at 8:00
a.m. on Tuesday. 3. Thursdays - On Thursday of each week during the
regular school term, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly
dismissed and ending at the time the child's school resumes on Friday. 4.
Spring Vacation in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered APP 2.9 A
CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz years,
beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed and ending at 6:00 P.M.
on the day before school resumes after that vacation. 5. Extended Summer
Possession by CHARLES MYERS - With Written Notice by April 1 - If
CHARLES MYERS gives MORGAN MYERS written notice by April 1 of a
year specifying an extended period or periods of summer possession for that
year, CHARLES MYERS shall have possession of the child for thirty days
beginning no earlier than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the
summer vacation and ending no later than seven days before school resumes
at the end of the summer vacation in that year, to be exercised in no more
than two separate periods of at least seven consecutive days each, as
specified in the written notice. These periods of possession shall begin and
end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day. Without Written Notice by April 1 -
If CHARLES MYERS does not give MORGAN MYERS written notice by April
1 of a year specifying an extended period or periods of summer possession
for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have possession of the child for thirty
consecutive days in that year beginning at 6:00 P.M. on July 1 and ending at
6:00 P.M. on July 31. Notwithstanding the Thursday periods of possession
during the regular school term and the weekend periods of possession
ORDERED for CHARLES MYERS, it is expressly ORDERED that MORGAN
MYERS shall have a superior right of possession of the child as follows: 1.
Spring Vacation in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years, beginning
at the time the child's school is dismissed and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day
before school resumes after that vacation. 2. Summer Weekend Possession
by MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written
notice by April 15 of a year, MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the
child on any one weekend beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday and ending at
6:00 P.M. on the following Sunday during any one period of the extended
summer possession by CHARLES MYERS in that year, provided that

=== PAGE 66 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
MORGAN MYERS picks up the child from CHARLES MYERS and returns the
child to that same place and that the weekend so designated does not
interfere with Father's Day possession. Not later than the fifteenth day
before the Friday that begins the designated weekend, CHARLES MYERS
must give MORGAN MYERS written notice of the location at which
MORGAN MYERS is to pick up and return the child. 3. Extended Summer
Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES
MYERS written notice by April 15 of a year or gives CHARLES MYERS
fourteen days' written notice on or after April 16 of a year, MORGAN MYERS
may designate one weekend beginning no APP 2.10 A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz earlier than the day after the
child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and ending no later than
seven days before school resumes at the end of the summer vacation, during
which an otherwise scheduled weekend period of possession by CHARLES
MYERS shall not take place in that year, provided that the weekend so
designated does not interfere with CHARLES MYERS's period or periods of
extended summer possession or with Father's Day possession.
Notwithstanding the weekend and Thursday periods of possession of
CHARLES MYERS, MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child as follows: 1. Christmas Holidays in Even-
Numbered Years - In even-numbered years, CHARLES MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child beginning at the time the child's school is
dismissed for the Christmas school vacation and ending at noon on
December 28, and MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of
the child beginning at noon on December 28 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the
day before school resumes after that Christmas school vacation. 2.
Christmas Holidays in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years,
MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at
the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas school vacation
and ending at noon on December 28, and CHARLES MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child beginning at noon on December 28 and
ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that Christmas
school vacation. 3. Thanksgiving in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered
years, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child
beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed before Thanksgiving
and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the Sunday following Thanksgiving. 4.
Thanksgiving in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered years, MORGAN
MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at the time
the child's school is dismissed before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00 P .M.
on the Sunday following Thanksgiving. 5. Child's Birthday - If a parent is not
otherwise entitled under this Standard Possession Order to present
possession of a child on the child's birthday, that parent shall have
possession of the child and the child's minor siblings beginning at 6:00 P.M.
and ending at 8:00 P.M. on that day, provided that that parent picks up the
child from the other parent's residence and returns the child to that same
place. 6. Father's Day - CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession
of the child each year, beginning at 6:00 P.M. on the Friday preceding APP
2.11 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz Father's Day
and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the Monday after Father's Day, provided that if
CHARLES MYERS is not otherwise entitled under this Standard Possession

=== PAGE 67 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Order to present possession of the child, he shall pick up the child from
MORGAN MYERS's residence and return the child to that same place. 7.
Mother's Day - MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the
child each year, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly
dismissed on the Friday preceding Mother's Day and ending at the time the
child's school resumes after Mother's Day, provided that if MORGAN MYERS
is not otherwise entitled under this Standard Possession Order to present
possession of the child, she shall pick up the child from CHARLES MYERS's
residence and return the child to that same place. (d) When Parents Reside
More than 50 Miles but 100 Miles or Less Apart Except as otherwise
expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, when CHARLES
MYERS resides more than 50 Miles but 100 miles or less from the primary
residence of the child, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession
of the child as follows: 1. Weekends - On weekends that occur during the
regular school term, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly
dismissed, on the first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at
the time the child's school resumes after the weekend. On weekends that do
not occur during the regular school term, beginning at 6:00 P.M., on the
first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the
following Sunday. 2. Weekend Possession Extended by a Holiday - Except as
otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, if a
weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student
holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on a Friday during the regular
school term, as determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a
federal, state, or local holiday that falls on a Friday during the summer
months when school is not in session, that weekend period of possession
shall begin at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed on the
Thursday immediately preceding the student holiday or teacher in-service
day and 6:00 p.m. on the Thursday immediately preceding the federal, state,
or local holiday during the summer months. Except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is immediately followed by a
student holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on APP 2.122 A
CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz a Monday
during the regular school term, as determined by the school in which the
child is enrolled, that weekend period of possession shall end at 8:00 a.m. on
Tuesday. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession
Order, if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a federal, state, or local holiday that falls on a
Monday during the summer months when school is not in session, that
weekend period of possession shall end at 6:00 P.M. on that Monday. 3.
Thursdays - On Thursday of each week during the regular school term,
beginning at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed and ending at
the time the child's school resumes on Friday. 4. Spring Vacation in Even-
Numbered Years - In even-numbered years, beginning at the time the child's
school is dismissed for the school's spring vacation and ending at 6:00 P.M.
on the day before school resumes after that vacation. 5. Extended Summer
Possession by CHARLES MYERS - With Written Notice by April I - If
CHARLES MYERS gives MORGAN MYERS written notice by April I of a year
specifying an extended period or periods of summer possession for that year,
CHARLES MYERS shall have possession of the child for thirty days

=== PAGE 68 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
beginning no earlier than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the
summer vacation and ending no later than seven days before school resumes
at the end of the summer vacation in that year, to be exercised in no more
than two separate periods of at least seven consecutive days each, as
specified in the written notice. These periods of possession shall begin and
end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day. Without Written Notice by April I -
If CHARLES MYERS does not give MORGAN MYERS written notice by April
I of a year specifying an extended period or periods of summer possession
for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have possession of the child for thirty
consecutive days in that year beginning at 6:00 P.M. on July I and ending at
6:00 P.M. on July 31 . Notwithstanding the Thursday periods of possession
during the regular school term and the weekend periods of possession
ORDERED for CHARLES MYERS, it is expressly ORDERED that MORGAN
MYERS shall have a superior right of possession of the child as follows: 1.
Spring Vacation in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years, beginning
at the time the child's school is dismissed for the school's spring vacation
and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that
vacation. APP 2.13 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz 2. Summer Weekend Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN
MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a year,
MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the child on any one weekend
beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the following
Sunday during any one period of the extended summer possession by
CHARLES MYERS in that year, provided that MORGAN MYERS picks up the
child from CHARLES MYERS and returns the child to that same place and
that the weekend so designated does not interfere with Father's Day
possession. Not later than the fifteenth day before the Friday that begins the
designated weekend, CHARLES MYERS must give MORGAN MYERS written
notice of the location at which MORGAN MYERS is to pick up and return the
child. 3. Extended Summer Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN
MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a year or gives
CHARLES MYERS fourteen days' written notice on or after April 16 of a
year, MORGAN MYERS may designate one weekend beginning no earlier
than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation
and ending no later than seven days before school resumes at the end of the
summer vacation, during which an otherwise scheduled weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS shall not take place in that year, provided
that the weekend so designated does not interfere with CHARLES MYERS's
period or periods of extended summer possession or with Father's Day
possession. ( e) Parents Who Reside More Than 100 Miles Apart Except as
otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, when
CHARLES MYERS resides more than 100 miles from the residence of the
child, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as
follows: 1. Weekends - Unless CHARLES MYERS elects the alternative
period of weekend possession described in the next paragraph, CHARLES
MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child on weekends
beginning at 6:00 P.M., on the first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and
ending at 6:00 P.M. on the following Sunday. Alternate Weekend Possession -
In lieu of the weekend possession described in the foregoing paragraph,
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child not more
than one weekend per month of CHARLES MYERS's choice beginning at

=== PAGE 69 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
6:00 P.M. on the day school recesses for the weekend and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the day before school resumes after the weekend. CHARLES MYERS
may elect an option for this alternative period of weekend possession by
giving written notice to MORGAN MYERS within ninety days after the
parties begin to reside more than 100 miles apart. If CHARLES MYERS
makes this election, CHARLES MYERS shall give MORGAN MYERS APP
2.14 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz fourteen
days' written or telephonic notice preceding a designated weekend. The
weekends chosen shall not conflict with the provisions regarding Christmas,
Thanksgiving, the child's birthday, and Mother's Day possession below. 2.
Weekend Possession Extended by a Holiday - Except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student holiday or a teacher in-
service day that falls on a Friday during the regular school term, as
determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a federal, state,
or local holiday during the summer months when school is not in session,
that weekend period of possession shall begin at the time the child's school
is regularly dismissed on the Thursday immediately preceding the student
holiday or teacher in-service day and 6:00 p.m. on the Thursday immediately
preceding the federal, state, or local holiday during the summer months
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order, if
a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a student holiday or a teacher in-service day that
falls on a Monday during the regular school term, as determined by the
school in which the child is enrolled, that weekend period of possession shall
end at 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Standard Possession Order, if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES
MYERS ends on or is immediately followed by a federal, state, or local
holiday that falls on a Monday during the summer months when school is
not in session, that weekend period of possession shall end at 6:00 P.M. on
that Monday. 3. Spring Vacation in All Years - Every year, beginning at 6:00
P.M. on the day the child is dismissed from school for the school's spring
vacation and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that
vacation. 4. Extended Summer Possession by CHARLES MYERS - With
Written Notice by April I - If CHARLES MYERS gives MORGAN MYERS
written notice by April I of a year specifying an extended period or periods
of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have possession
of the child for forty-two days beginning no earlier than the day after the
child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and ending no later than
seven days before school resumes at the end of the summer vacation in that
year, to be exercised in no more than two separate periods of at least seven
consecutive days each, as specified in the written notice. These periods of
possession shall begin and end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day. Without
Written Notice by April I - If CHARLES MYERS does not give APP 2.15 A
CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz MORGAN
MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended period or
periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have
possession of the child for forty-two consecutive days beginning at 6:00 P.M.
on June 15 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on July 27 of that year. Notwithstanding
the weekend periods of possession ORDERED for CHARLES MYERS, it is

=== PAGE 70 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
expressly ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall have a superior right of
possession of the child as follows: 1. Summer Weekend Possession by
MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written
notice by April 15 of a year, MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the
child on any one weekend beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday and ending at
6:00 P.M. on the following Sunday during any one period of possession by
CHARLES MYERS during CHARLES MYERS's extended summer possession
in that year, provided that if a period of possession by CHARLES MYERS in
that year exceeds thirty days, MORGAN MYERS may have possession of the
child under the terms of this provision on any two nonconsecutive weekends
during that period and provided that MORGAN MYERS picks up the child
from CHARLES MYERS and returns the child to that same place and that
the weekend so designated does not interfere with Father's Day possession.
2. Extended Summer Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If MORGAN MYERS
gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a year, MORGAN
MYERS may designate twenty-one days beginning no earlier than the day
after the child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and ending no
later than seven days before school resumes at the end of the summer
vacation in that year, to be exercised in no more than two separate periods
of at least seven consecutive days each, during which CHARLES MYERS
shall not have possession of the child, provided that the period or periods so
designated do not interfere with CHARLES MYERS's period or periods of
extended summer possession or with Father's Day possession. These periods
of possession shall begin and end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day. (f)
Holidays Notwithstanding the weekend and Thursday periods of possession
of CHARLES MYERS, except when CHARLES MYERS resides fifty miles or
less from the primary residence of the child, MORGAN MYERS and
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as follows:
1. Christmas Holidays in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered years,
CHARLES MYERS shall_ have the right to possession of the child beginning
at the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas school vacation
and ending at noon on December 28, and MORGAN MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child beginning at noon on December 28 and
ending APP 2.16 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that Christmas
school vacation. 2. Christmas Holidays in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-
numbered years, MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the
child beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas
school vacation and ending at noon on December 28, and CHARLES MYERS
shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at noon on
December 28 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes
after that Christmas school vacation. 3. Thanksgiving in Odd-Numbered
Years - In odd-numbered years, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to
possession of the child beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed
before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the Sunday following
Thanksgiving. 4. Thanksgiving in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered
years, MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child
beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed before Thanksgiving
and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the Sunday following Thanksgiving. 5. Child's
Birthday - If a parent is not otherwise entitled under this Standard
Possession Order to present possession of a child on the child's birthday,

=== PAGE 71 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
that parent shall have possession of the child and the child's minor siblings
beginning at 6:00 P.M. and ending at 8:00 P.M. on that day, provided that
that parent picks up the child from the other parent's residence and returns
the child to that same place. 6. Father's Day - CHARLES MYERS shall have
the right to possession of the child each year, beginning at 6:00 P.M. on the
Friday preceding Father's Day and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the Monday after
Father's Day, provided that if CHARLES MYERS is not otherwise entitled
under this Standard Possession Order to present possession of the child, he
shall pick up the child from MORGAN MYERS's residence and return the
child to that same place. 7. Mother's Day - MORGAN MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child each year, beginning at the time the child's
school is regularly dismissed on the Friday preceding Mother's Day and
ending at the time the child's school resumes after Mother's Day, provided
that if MORGAN MYERS is not otherwise entitled under this Standard
Possession Order to present possession of the child, she shall pick up the
child from CHARLES MYERS's residence and return the child to that same
place. (g) Undesignated Periods of Possession MORGAN MYERS shall have
the right of possession of the child at all APP 2.17 A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz other times not specifically
designated in this Standard Possession Order for CHARLES MYERS. (h)
General Terms and Conditions Except as otherwise expressly provided in
this Standard Possession Order, the terms and conditions of possession of
the child that apply regardless of the distance between the residence of a
parent and the child are as follows: 1. Surrender of Child by MORGAN
MYERS - MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to CHARLES
MYERS at the beginning of each period of CHARLES MYERS's possession at
the residence of MORGAN MYERS. If a period of possession by CHARLES
MYERS begins at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed,
MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to CHARLES MYERS
at the beginning of each such period of possession at the school in which the
child is enrolled. If the child is not physically attending school, CHARLES
MYERS shall pick up the child at the residence of MORGAN MYERS at 6:00
P.M., and MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to
CHARLES MYERS at the residence of MORGAN MYERS at 6:00 P.M. under
these circumstances. 2. Surrender of Child by CHARLES MYERS - CHARLES
MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to MORGAN MYERS at the
residence of CHARLES MYERS at the end of each period of possession. If a
period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends at the time the child's school
resumes, CHARLES MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child to MORGAN
MYERS at the end of each such period of possession at the school in which
the child is enrolled or, if the child is not physically attending school, at the
residence of MORGAN MYERS at 6:00 P.M. 3. Surrender of Child by
CHARLES MYERS - CHARLES MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child
to MORGAN MYERS, if the child is in CHARLES MYERS's possession or
subject to CHARLES MYERS's control, at the beginning of each period of
MORGAN MYERS's exclusive periods of possession, at the place designated
in this Standard Possession Order. 4. Return of Child by MORGAN MYERS -
MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to return the child to CHARLES MYERS, if
CHARLES MYERS is entitled to possession of the child, at the end of each of
MORGAN MYERS's exclusive periods of possession, at the place designated
in this Standard Possession Order. 5. Personal Effects - Each conservator is

=== PAGE 72 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
ORDERED to return with APP 2.18 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS
A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz the child the personal effects that the child brought at the
beginning of the period of possession. 6. Designation of Competent Adult -
Each conservator may designate any competent adult to pick up and return
the child, as applicable. IT IS ORDERED that a conservator or a designated
competent adult be present when the child is picked up or returned. 7.
Inability to Exercise Possession - Each conservator is ORDERED to give
notice to the person in possession of the child on each occasion that the
conservator will be unable to exercise that conservator's right of possession
for any specified period. 8. Written Notice - Written notice, including notice
provided by electronic mail or facsimile or as otherwise authorized in this
order, shall be deemed to have been timely made if received or, if applicable,
postmarked before or at the time that notice is due. Each conservator is
ORDERED to notify the other conservator of any change in the conservator's
electronic mail address or facsimile number within twenty-four hours after
the change. 9. Notice to School and MORGAN MYERS - If CHARLES
MYERS's time of possession of the child ends at the time school resumes
and for any reason the child is not or will not be returned to school,
CHARLES MYERS shall immediately notify the school and MORGAN MYERS
that the child will not be or has not been returned to school. This concludes
the Standard Possession Order. 2. Duration The periods of possession
ordered above apply to each child the subject of this suit while that child is
under the age of eighteen years and not otherwise emancipated. Child
Support IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS pay to MORGAN MYERS
for the support of MARA MYERS and CAROLINE MYERS nine hundred
seventy-three dollars and nineteen cents ($973.19) per month, with the first
payment being due and payable on April 1, 2024 and a like payment being
due and payable on the first day of each month thereafter until further order
of this Court. APP 2.19 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz Withholding from Earnings IT IS ORDERED that any employer of
CHARLES MYERS shall be ordered to withhold the child support payments
ordered in this order from the disposable earnings of CHARLES MYERS for
the support of MARA MYERS and CAROLINE MYERS. IT IS FURTHER
ORDERED that all amounts withheld from the disposable earnings of
CHARLES MYERS by the employer and paid in accordance with the order to
that employer shall constitute a credit against the child support obligation.
Payment of the full amount of child support ordered paid by this order
through the means of withholding from earnings shall discharge the child
support obligation. If the amount withheld from earnings and credited
against the child support obligation is less than I 00 percent of the amount
ordered to be paid by this order, the balance due remains an obligation of
CHARLES MYERS, and it is hereby ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS pay
the balance due directly as specified below. On this date the Court signed an
Income Withholding for Support. Payment IT IS ORDERED that all payments
shall be made through the state disbursement unit at Texas Child Support
Disbursement Unit, P.O. Box 659791, San Antonio, Texas 78265-9791, and
thereafter promptly remitted to MORGAN MYERS for the support of the
children. IT IS ORDERED that all payments shall be made payable to the
Office of the Attorney General and include the ten-digit Office of the
Attorney General case number (if available), the cause number of this suit,

=== PAGE 73 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
CHARLES MYERS's name as the name of the noncustodial parent (NCP),
and MORGAN MYERS's name as the name of the custodial parent (CP).
Payment options are found on the Office of the Attorney General's website at
www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/cs/paymentoptions- and-types. APP 2.20 A
CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz IT IS
ORDERED that each party shall pay, when due, all fees charged to that party
by the state disbursement unit and any other agency statutorily authorized
to charge a fee. Change of Employment IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that
CHARLES MYERS shall notify this Court and MORGAN MYERS by U.S.
certified mail, return receipt requested, of any change of address and of any
termination of employment. This notice shall be given no later than seven
days after the change of address or the termination of employment. This
notice or a subsequent notice shall also provide the current address of
CHARLES MYERS and the name and address of his current employer,
whenever that information becomes available. Clerk's Duties IT IS
ORDERED that, on the request of a prosecuting attorney, the title IV-D
agency, the friend of the Court, a domestic relations office, MORGAN
MYERS, CHARLES MYERS, or an attorney representing MORGAN MYERS
or CHARLES MYERS, the clerk of this Court shall cause a certified copy of
the Income Withholding for Support to be delivered to any employer.
Medical and Dental Support 1. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and
CHARLES MYERS shall each provide additional child support for each child
as set out in this order for as long as the Court may order MORGAN MYERS
and CHARLES MYERS to provide support for the child under sections
154.001 and 154.002 of the Texas Family Code. Beginning on the day
MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS's actual or potential obligation to
support a child under sections 154.001 and 154.002 of the Family Code
terminates, IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS
are discharged from these obligations with respect to that child, except for
any failure by a parent to fully comply with these obligations before that
date. APP 2.21 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the additional child support payments
for costs of health and dental insurance ordered below are payable through
the state disbursement unit or as directed below and subject to the
provisions for withholding from earnings provided above for other child
support payments. 2. Definitions - "Health Insurance" means insurance
coverage that provides basic health-care services, including usual physician
services, office visits, hospitalization, and laboratory, X-ray, and emergency
services, that may be provided through a health maintenance organization
or other private or public organization, other than medical assistance under
chapter 32 of the Texas Human Resources Code. "Reasonable cost" means
the total cost of health insurance coverage for all children for which
MORGAN MYERS is responsible under a medical support order that does
not exceed 9 percent of MORGAN MYERS's annual resources, as described
by section 154.062(b) of the Texas Family Code. "Health-care expenses"
include, without limitation, medical, surgical, prescription drug, mental
health-care services, dental, eye care, ophthalmological, and orthodontic
charges but do not include expenses for travel to and from the provider or
for nonprescription medication. "Health-care expenses that are not
reimbursed by insurance" ("unreimbursed expenses") include related

=== PAGE 74 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
copayments and deductibles. 3. Findings on Availability of Health Insurance
- Having considered the cost, accessibility, and quality of health insurance
coverage available to the parties, the Court finds: IT IS FURTHER FOUND
that the following orders regarding health-care coverage are in the best
interest of the children. APP 2.22 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz 4. Provision of Health-Care Coverage - As Petitioner's child
support, MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to obtain Medicaid for the children
the subject of this suit, and then maintain health insurance for the children
as long as child support is payable for that child. MORGAN MYERS is
ORDERED - a. to provide to each conservator of the children the following
information no later than the thirtieth day after she received Medicaid for
the children: a. MORGA MYERS' Social Security number; b. Proof that
health insurance has been provided for the children; c. The following
information and documents: 1. The name of the health insurance carrier; 11.
The number of the policy; iii. A copy of the policy; 1v. A schedule of benefits;
v. A health insurance membership card; v1. Claim forms; and v11. Any other
information necessary to submit a claim; and d. To provide each conservator
of the children with a copy of any renewals or changes to the health
insurance coverage of the children and any additional information regarding
health insurance coverage of the children no later than the fifteenth day
after MORGAN MYERS receives or is provided with the renewal, change, or
additional information; e. To notify each conservator of the children of any
termination or APP 2.23 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz lapse of health insurance coverage of the children no later than the
fifteenth day after the date of the termination or lapse; f. After termination
or lapse of health insurance coverage, to notify each conservator of the
children of the availability to MORGAN MYERS of additional health
insurance for the children no later than the fifteenth day after the date the
insurance becomes available; g. After termination or lapse of health
insurance coverage, to enroll the children in a health insurance plan that is
available to MORGAN MYERS at a reasonable cost at the next available
enrollment period. Pursuant to section 1504.051 of the Texas Insurance
Code, IT IS ORDERED that if MORGAN MYERS is eligible for dependent
health coverage but fails to apply to obtain coverage for the children, the
insurer shall enroll the children on application of CHARLES MYERS or
others authorized by law. 5. Allocation ofUnreimbursed Expenses - The
conservator who incurs a health-care expense on behalf of a child is
ORDERED to provide to the other conservator receipts, bills, statements, or
explanations of benefits showing the uninsured portion of the health-care
expenses within thirty days after the incurring conservator receives them.
The nonincurring conservator is ORDERED to pay the non-incurring
conservator's percentage of the unreimbursed portion of the health-care
expenses either by paying the health-care provider directly or by
reimbursing the incurring conservator for any advance payment exceeding
the incurring conservator's percentage of the unreimbursed portion of the
health-care expenses within thirty days after the nonincurring conservator
receives receipts, bills, statements, or explanations of benefits showing the
unreimbursed portion of the APP 2.24 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz health-care expense. For the Court to hold the

=== PAGE 75 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
nonincurring conservator in civil or criminal contempt for failing to pay the
nonincurring conservator's percentage of the unreimbursed portion of a
healthcare expense, the incurring conservator must prove beyond a
reasonable doubt that the nonincurring conservator personally received
receipts, bills, statements, or explanations of benefits reflecting the
unreimbursed portion of the health-care expense no later than thirty days
after the incurring conservator received them. Even if the incurring
conservator fails to meet that burden of proof, the Court may award the
incurring conservator a judgment in the nature of child support against the
nonincurring conservator in the amount of the unreimbursed portion of the
heath-care expense the nonincurring conservator was ordered but fail to
pay. 6. WARNING - A PARENT ORDERED TO PROVIDE HEAL TH
INSURANCE OR DENT AL INSURANCE OR TO PAY THE OTHER PARENT
ADDITIONAL CHILD SUPPORT FOR THE COST OF HEALTH INSURANCE
OR DENTAL INSURANCE WHO FAILS TO DO SO IS LIABLE FOR
NECESSARY MEDICAL EXPENSES OF THE CHILDREN, WITHOUT
REGARD TO WHETHER THE EXPENSES WOULD HA VE BEEN PAID IF
HEALTH INSURANCE OR DENTAL INSURANCE HAD BEEN PROVIDED,
AND FOR THE COST OF HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUMS, DENTAL
INSURANCE PREMIUMS, OR CONTRIBUTIONS, IF ANY, PAID ON BEHALF
OF THE CHILDREN. 7. Notice to Employer - On this date a Medical Support
Notice was signed by the Court. For the purpose of section 1169 of title 29
of the United States Code, the conservator not carrying the health or dental
insurance policy is designated the custodial parent and alternate recipient's
representative. APP 2.25 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz No Termination of Orders on Death ofObligee An obligation to pay
child support under this order does not terminate on the death of MORGAN
MYERS but continues as an obligation to MARA MYERS and CAROLINE
MYERS. Other Child Related Provisions Required Notices NOTICE TO ANY
PEACE OFFICER OF THE STATE OF TEXAS: YOU MAY USE REASONABLE
EFFORTS TO ENFORCE THE TERMS OF CHILD CUSTODY SPECIFIED IN
THIS ORDER. A PEACE OFFICER WHO RELIES ON THE TERMS OF A
COURT ORDER AND THE OFFICER'S AGENCY ARE ENTITLED TO THE
APPLICABLE IMMUNITY AGAINST ANY CLAIM, CIVIL OR OTHERWISE,
REGARDING THE OFFICER'S GOOD FAITH ACTS PERFORMED IN THE
SCOPE OF THE OFFICER'S DUTIES IN ENFORCING THE TERMS OF THE
ORDER THAT RELATE TO CHILD CUSTODY. ANY PERSON WHO
KNOWINGLY PRESENTS FOR ENFORCEMENT AN ORDER THAT IS
INVALID OR NO LONGER IN EFFECT COMMITS AN OFFENSE THAT MAY
BE PUNISHABLE BY CONFINEMENT IN JAIL FOR AS LONG AS TWO
YEARS AND A FINE OF AS MUCH AS $10,000. THE COURT MAY MODIFY
THIS ORDER THAT PROVIDES FOR THE SUPPORT OF A CHILD, IF: (1)
THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CHILD OR A PERSON AFFECTED BY THE
ORDER HA VE MATERIALLY AND SUB ST ANTIALL Y CHANGED; OR (2) IT
HAS BEEN THREE YEARS SINCE THE ORDER WAS RENDERED OR LAST
MODIFIED AND THE MONTHLY AMOUNT OF THE CHILD SUPPORT
AWARD APP 2.26 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz UNDER THE ORDER DIFFERS BY EITHER 20 PERCENT OR $100
FROM THE AMOUNT THAT WOULD BE AWARDED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE CHILD SUPPORT GUIDELINES. Warnings to Parties WARNINGS

=== PAGE 76 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
TO PARTIES: FAILURE TO OBEY A COURT ORDER FOR CHILD SUPPORT
OR FOR POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A CHILD MAY RESULT IN
FURTHER LITIGATION TO ENFORCE THE ORDER, INCLUDING
CONTEMPT OF COURT. A FINDING OF CONTEMPT MAY BE PUNISHED
BY CONFINEMENT IN JAIL FOR UP TO SIX MONTHS, A FINE OF UP TO
$500 FOR EACH VIOLATION, AND A MONEY JUDGMENT FOR PAYMENT
OF ATTORNEY'S FEES AND COURT COSTS. FAILURE OF A PARTY TO
MAKE A CHILD SUPPORT PAYMENT TO THE PLACE AND IN THE
MANNER REQUIRED BY A COURT ORDER MAY RESULT IN THE PARTY'S
NOT RECEIVING CREDIT FOR MAKING THE PAYMENT. FAILURE OF A
PARTY TO PAY CHILD SUPPORT DOES NOT JUSTIFY DENYING THAT
PARTY COURT-ORDERED POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A CHILD.
REFUSAL BY A PARTY TO ALLOW POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A
CHILD DOES NOT JUSTIFY FAIL URE TO PAY COURT-ORDERED CHILD
SUPPORT TO THAT PARTY. Property and Parties The Court finds that the
following orders respecting the property and parties are necessary and
equitable. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall be responsible for
the timely payment of the following: APP 2.27 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz 1. The auto insurance for the vehicle in her
possession; 2. the monthly payment for her cell phone; 3. the rent payment
for the residence located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga, Texas beginning
after March 30, 2024. IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS shall be
responsible for the timely payment of the following: 1. The auto insurance
for the 2021 Mazda, the 2023 Mazda, and any other vehicle currently in his
possession; 2. the car payments for the 2021 Mazda, the 2023 Mazda, and
any other vehicle currently in his possession; 3. the monthly payment for his
cell phone; 4. the rent payment for the residence located at 6641 Anns
Court, Watauga, Texas for February and March 2024. IT IS ORDERED that
Petitioner have the exclusive and private use and possession of the following
property while this case is pending: the personal property and clothing in
her possession, the 2007 Mazda motor vehicle currently in her possession,
and the residence located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga, Texas beginning
March 30, 2024. IT IS ORDERED that Respondent have the exclusive and
private use and possession of the following property while this case is
pending: the personal property and clothing in his possession, the 2021
Mazda motor vehicle, the 2023 Mazda motor vehicle, and the residence
located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga, Texas ONLY until March 20, 2024. Co-
Parenting Website IT IS ORDERED that the parties are to attend "Children
in the Middle" part 1 and/or 2 APP 2.28 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz by May 1, 2024, and file a certificate of
completion with the Court for their attendance to this coparenting class. IT
IS FURTHER ORDERED that each party shall be solely liable for their own
costs for the attendance of this co-parenting class. App Close IT IS
ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS each shall, within
ten days after the entry of the Associate Judge's Report is signed by the
Court, obtain at his/her sole expense a subscription to the AppClose
program. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES
MYERS each shall maintain that subscription in full force and effect for as
long as the child is under the age of eighteen years and not otherwise
emancipated. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS

=== PAGE 77 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
shall each communicate through the AppClose program with regard to all
communication regarding the children, except in the case of emergency or
other urgent matter. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES
MYERS each shall timely post all significant information concerning the
health, education, and welfare of the children, including but not limited to
the children's medical appointments, the children's schedules and activities,
and request for reimbursement of uninsured health-care expenses, on the
AppClose website. However, IT IS ORDERED that neither party shall have
any obligation to post on that website any information to which the other
party already has access through other means, such as information available
on the website of the children's schools. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that
MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS shall each timely post on the
AppClose website a copy of any email received by the party from the APP
2.29 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz children's
school or any health-care provider of the children, in the event that email
was not also forwarded by the school or health-care provider to the other
party. For purposes of this section of this order, "timely" means on learning
of the event or activity, or if not immediately feasible under the
circumstances, not later than twenty-four hours after learning of the event
or activity. By agreement, the parties may communicate m any manner other
than usmg the AppClose program, but other methods of communication
used by the parties shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, using the
AppClose program. Temporary Injunction The temporary injunction granted
below shall be effective immediately and shall be binding on the parties; on
their agents, servants, employees, and attorneys; and on those persons in
active concert or participation with them who receive actual notice of this
order by personal service or otherwise. The requirement of a bond is
waived. IT IS ORDERED that Petitioner and Respondent are enjoined from:
1. Intentionally communicating with the other party in person or m any
other manner, including by telephone or another electronic voice
transmission, video chat, in writing, or electronic messaging, by use of
vulgar, profane, obscene, or indecent language or in a coarse or offensive
manner, with intent to annoy or alarm the other party. 2. Threatening the
other party in person or in any other manner, including by telephone or
another electronic voice transmission, video chat, in writing, or electronic
messaging, to take unlawful action against any person, intending by this
action to annoy or alarm the other party. 3. Placing a telephone call,
anonymously, at any unreasonable hour, in an offensive APP 2.30 A
CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK
TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz and
repetitious manner, or without a legitimate purpose of communication with
the intent to annoy or alarm the other party. 4. Intentionally, knowingly, or
recklessly causing bodily injury to the other party or to a child of either
party. 5. Threatening the other party or a child of either party with imminent
bodily injury. 6. Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly destroying, removing,
concealing, encumbering, transferring, or otherwise harming or reducing
the value of the property of one or both of the parties with intent to obstruct
the authority of the Court to order a division of the estate of the parties in a
manner that the Court deems just and right, having due regard for the
rights of each party and the children of the marriage. 7. Intentionally
falsifying any writing or record, including an electronic record, relating to

=== PAGE 78 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
the property of either party. 8. Intentionally misrepresenting or refusing to
disclose to the other party or to the Court, on proper request, the existence,
amount, or location of any tangible or intellectual property of one or both of
the parties, including electronically stored or recorded information. 9.
Intentionally or knowingly damaging or destroying the tangible or
intellectual property of one or both of the parties, including electronically
stored or recorded information, and causing pecuniary loss or substantial
inconvenience to the other party. 10. Intentionally or knowingly tampering
with the tangible or intellectual property of one or both of the parties,
including electronically stored or recorded information, and causing
pecuniary loss or substantial inconvenience to the other party. 11 . Selling,
transferring, assigning, mortgaging, encumbering, or in any other manner
alienating any of the property of one or both of the parties, whether
personal property, real APP 2.31 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz property, or intellectual property, and whether separate or
community property, except as specifically authorized by this order. 12.
Incurring any debt, other than legal expenses in connection with this suit,
except as specifically authorized by this order. 13. Withdrawing money from
any checking or savings account m any financial institution for any purpose,
except as specifically authorized by this order. 14. Spending any money in
either party's possession or subject to either party's control for any purpose,
except as specifically authorized by this order. 15. Withdrawing or
borrowing money in any manner for any purpose from any retirement,
profit-sharing, pension, death, or other employee benefit plan, employee
savings plan, individual retirement account, or Keogh account of either
party, except as specifically authorized by this order. 16. Withdrawing,
transferring, ass1gnmg, encumbering, selling, or in any other manner
alienating any funds or assets held in any brokerage account, mutual fund
account, or investment account by one or both parties, regardless of
whether the funds or assets are community or separate property and
whether the accounts are self-managed or managed by a third party, except
as specifically authorized by this order. 17. Withdrawing or borrowing in any
manner all or any part of the cash surrender value of any life insurance
policy on the life of either party or a child of the parties, except as
specifically authorized by this order. 18. Entering any safe-deposit box in the
name of or subject to the control of one or both of the parties, whether
individually or jointly with others. 19. Changing or in any manner altering
the beneficiary designation on any life APP 2.32 A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz insurance policy on the life of
either party or a child of the parties. 20. Canceling, altering, failing to renew
or pay premiums on, or m any manner affecting the level of coverage that
existed at the time this suit was filed of, any life, casualty, automobile, or
health insurance policy insuring the parties' property or persons including a
child of the parties. 21. Opening or diverting mail or email or any other
electronic communication addressed to the other party. 22. Signing or
endorsing the other party's name on any negotiable instrument, check, or
draft, including a tax refund, insurance payment, and dividend, or
attempting to negotiate any negotiable instrument payable to the parties or
the other party without the personal signature of the other party. 23. Taking
any action to terminate or limit credit or charge cards in the name of the

=== PAGE 79 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
parties or the other party, except as specifically authorized in this order. 24.
Discontinuing or reducing the withholding for federal income taxes from
either party's wages or salary. 25. Destroying, disposing of, or altering any
financial records of the parties, including but not limited to a canceled
check, deposit slip, and other records from a financial institution, a record of
credit purchases or cash advances, a tax return, and a financial statement.
26. Destroying, disposing of, or altering any email, text message, video
message, or chat message or other electronic data or electronically stored
information relevant to the subject matter of this case, whether stored on a
hard drive, in a removable storage device, in cloud storage, or in another
electronic storage medium. 27. Modifying, changing, or altering the native
format or metadata of any electronic APP 2.33 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST:
THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/
04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz data or electronically stored infonnation
relevant to the subject matter of this case, whether stored on a hard drive,
in a removable storage device, in cloud storage, or in another electronic
storage medium. 28. Deleting any data or content from any social network
profile used or created by either party or a child of the parties. 29. Using
any password or personal identification number to gain access to the other
party's email account, bank account, social media account, or any other
electronic account. 30. Consuming, use or have in their possession any
illegal drug or drugs at any time nor shall they have, at any time, a legal
drug or drugs in their possession for which that party does not have a
prescription. 31 . Neither party shall consume alcohol at least 12 hours prior
to their time for possession of the children. 32. Neither party shall consume
alcohol during their period of possession with the children. 33. Neither party
shall attend one of the children's activities if they have consumed alcohol or
they are under the influence of alcohol. 34. Neither party shall leave the
children with a person who is consuming alcohol at least 12 hours prior to
taking possession of the children or has in their possession an illegal
drug(s), including prescription drugs, as a childcare provider. 35. No
disparaging remarks in the presence of the children and no discussion of
litigation or issues of the case with children. 36. The parties are not to
discuss the litigation or issues with the children about the other party. The
aforementioned sentence means that neither party shall belittle, talk bad,
refer to APP 2.34 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz the other party using a profane name or names, profanity or curse
words. 37. The parties are not to discuss the litigation or issues with the
children. 38. Neither party shall discuss what occurred in Court including
testimony of any witness or witnesses with the children. IT IS ORDERED
that Petitioner is further enjoined from : 1. Entering, operating, or
exercising control over the 2021 Mazda motor vehicle and the 2023 Mazda
motor vehicle in the possession of Respondent. IT IS ORDERED that
Respondent is further enjoined from: 1. Excluding Petitioner from the use
and enjoyment of the residence located at 6641 Anns Court, Watagua, Texas
on or after March 30, 2024;. 2. Entering, operating, or exercising control
over the 2007 Mazda motor vehicle in the possession of Petitioner. IT IS
ORDERED that Petitioner is specifically authorized: To make expenditures
and incur indebtedness for reasonable and necessary living expenses for
food, clothing, shelter, transportation, and medical care. To make
expenditures and incur indebtedness for reasonable attorney's fees and

=== PAGE 80 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
expenses in connection with this suit. To make withdrawals from accounts m
financial institutions only for the purposes authorized by this order. IT IS
ORDERED that Respondent is specifically authorized: To make expenditures
and incur indebtedness for reasonable and necessary living expenses for
food, clothing, shelter, transportation, and medical care. To make
expenditures and incur indebtedness for reasonable attorney's fees and
expenses APP 2.35 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz in connection with this suit. For purposes of this order, "personal
property" includes, but 1s not limited to, the following: a. cash, checks,
traveler's checks, and money orders; b. funds on deposit in financial
accounts with commercial banks, savings banks, and credit unions; c. funds
and assets held in brokerage, mutual fund, and other investment accounts;
d. publicly traded stocks, bonds, and other securities; e. stock options and
restricted stock units; f. bonuses; g. closely held business interests; h.
retirement benefits and accounts; 1. deferred compensation benefits; J.
insurance policies, annuities, and health savings accounts; k. motor vehicles,
boats, airplanes, cycles, mobile homes, trailers, and recreational vehicles; 1.
money owed to one or both parties, including notes and expected income tax
refunds; m. household furniture, furnishings, and fixtures; n. electronics and
computers; o. antiques, artwork, and collections; p. sporting goods and
firearms; q. jewelry and other personal items; APP 2.36 A CERTIFIED COPY
ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY,
TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine Saenz r. pets and livestock; s. club
memberships; t. travel award benefits and other award accounts; u. crops,
farm equipment, construction equipment, tools, leases, cemetery lots, gold
or silver coins not part of a collection, tax overpayments, loss carry-forward
deductions, lottery tickets/winnings, stadium bonds, stadium seat licenses,
seat options, season tickets, ranch brands, and business names; v. digital
assets such as email addresses, social network accounts, Web sites, domain
names, digital media such as pictures, music, e-books, movies, and videos,
biogs, reward points, digital storefronts, artwork, and data storage
accounts; w. virtual assets such as virtual pets, avatars, accessones for
virtual characters, virtual prizes, virtual real estate, and virtual currency; x.
safe-deposit boxes and their contents; y. storage facilities and their contents;
and z. contingent assets. Duration These Temporary Orders shall continue in
force until the signing of the Final Decree of Divorce or until further order of
this Court. Jl.JDGE PRESIDING APPROVED AS TO FORM ONLY: MARX
ALTMAN & JOHNSON APP 2.37 A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024
Catherine Saenz 2905 Lackland Rd. FT. WORTH, Texas 76116 Tel: (817)
926-6211 Fax: (817) 926-6188 By:__,__~+P--!b~----------Cooper Attorne for
Petitioner State Bar No. 24121530 coopercarter@maj admin. com Daniel R.
Bacalis PC 669 Airport Freeway Suite 307 Hurst, TX 76053 Office Phone:
(817)498-4105 Fax: (817)282-0634 By: _______________ _ Daniel Bucalis
Attorney for Respondent State Bar No. 01487550 Email:
dbacalis@dbacalis.com APPROVED AND CONSENTED TO AS TO BOTH
FORM AND SUBSTANCE: MORGAN MYERS PETITIONER CHARLES
MYERS RESPONDENT APP 2.38 Automated Certificate of eService This
automated certificate of service was created by the efiling system. The filer
served this document via email generated by the efiling system on the date
and to the persons listed below. The rules governing certificates of service

=== PAGE 81 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
have not changed. Filers must still provide a certificate of service that
complies with all applicable rules. Envelope ID: 85983756 Filing Code
Description: No Fee Documents Filing Description: Status as of 3/27/2024
7:40 AM CST Associated Case Party: MORGANMICHELLEMYERS Name
MORGAN MICHELLEMYERS Cooper L.Carter BarNumber Email
morganmw02@gmail.com coopercarter@majadmin.com
TimestampSubmitted 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM Status
SENT SENT Associated Case Party: CHARLESDUSTINMYERS Name Daniel
Bacalis Tammy L.Johnson Daniel R.Bacalis CHARLES MYERS BarNumber
Email service@dbacalis.com tjohnson@dbacalis.com dbacalis@dbacalis.com
chuckdustin12@gmail.com TimestampSubmitted 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM
3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM 3/26/2024 3:19:25 PM Status
SENT SENT SENT SENT A CERTIFIED COPY ATTEST: THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS BY: /s/ 04/16/2024 Catherine
Saenz APP 2.39 TAB 3 Tex. Fam. Code § 6.407 RELATOR'S APPENDIX APP 3
APP 3.1 TAB 4 Tex. Fam. Code § 155.001 RELATOR'S APPENDIX APP 4 APP
4.1 TAB 5 Tex. Const. art. I. § 19 RELATOR'S APPENDIX APP 5 APP 5.1 TAB
6 Tex. R. Civ. P. § 21(f)(11) Non-Conforming Documents RELATOR'S
APPENDIX APP 6 Misc. Docket No. 23-9053 Page 3 TEXAS RULES OF CIVIL
PROCEDURE RULE 21. FILING AND SERVING PLEADINGS AND MOTIONS
(a) Filing and Service Required. Every pleading, plea, motion, or application
to the court for an order, whether in the form of a motion, plea, or other
form of request, unless presented during a hearing or trial, must be filed
with the clerk of the court in writing, must state the grounds therefor, must
set forth the relief or order sought, and at the same time a true copy must
be served on all other parties, and must be noted on the docket. (b) Service
of Notice of Court Proceeding. An application to the court for an order and
notice of any court proceeding, as defined in Rule 21d(a), not presented
during a court proceeding, must be served upon all other parties not less
than three days before the time specified for the court proceeding, unless
otherwise provided by these rules or shortened by the court. Notice of any
court proceeding must contain the information needed for participants, as
defined in Rule 21d(a), to participate in the proceeding, including the
location of the proceeding or instructions for joining the proceeding
electronically, the court’s designated contact information, and instructions
for submitting evidence. A court must publish the information needed for
participants to participate in its proceedings. (c) Multiple Parties. If there is
more than one other party represented by different attorneys, one copy of
each pleading must be served on each attorney in charge. (d) Certificate of
Service. The party or attorney of record, must certify to the court
compliance with this rule in writing over signature on the filed pleading,
plea, motion, or application. (e) Additional Copies. After one copy is served
on a party, that party may obtain another copy of the same pleading upon
tendering reasonable payment for copying and delivering. (f) Electronic
Filing. (1) Requirement. Except in juvenile cases under Title 3 of the Family
Code and truancy cases under Title 3A of the Family Code, attorneys must
electronically file documents in courts where electronic filing has been
mandated. Attorneys practicing in courts where electronic filing is available
but not mandated and unrepresented parties may electronically file
documents, but it is not required. APP 6.1 Misc. Docket No. 23-9053 Page 5
(7) Electronic Signatures. A document that is electronically served, filed, or
issued by a court or clerk is considered signed if the document includes: (A)

=== PAGE 82 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
a “/s/” and name typed in the space where the signature would otherwise
appear, unless the document is notarized or sworn; or (B) an electronic
image or scanned image of the signature. (8) Format. An electronically filed
document must: (A) be in text-searchable portable document format (PDF);
(B) be directly converted to PDF rather than scanned, if possible; (C) not be
locked; and (D) otherwise comply with the Technology Standards set by the
Judicial Committee on Information Technology and approved by the
Supreme Court. (9) Paper Copies. Unless required by local rule, a party need
not file a paper copy of an electronically filed document. (10) Electronic
Orders, Notices, and Other Documents From the Court. The clerk maymust
send orders, notices, orders, orand other communications about the
casedocuments to the partyies electronically through the electronic filing
manager established by the Office of Court Administration and an electronic
filing service provider certified by the Office of Court Administration. A
court seal may be electronic. (11) Non-Conforming Documents. The clerk
may not refuse to file a document that fails to conform with this rule. But the
clerk may identify the error to be corrected and state a deadline for the
party to resubmit the document in a conforming format. (12) Original Wills.
When a party electronically files an application to probate a document as an
original will, the original will must be filed with the clerk within three
business days after the application is filed. (13) Official Record. The clerk
may designate an electronically filed document or a scanned paper
document as the official court record. The clerk is not required to keep both
paper and electronic versions of the same document unless otherwise
required by local rule. But the clerk must retain an original will filed for
probate in a numbered file folder. APP 6.2 TAB 7 Tex. R. Civ. P. § 59 Exhibits
and Pleadings RELATOR'S APPENDIX APP 7 Page 38 RULE 55. JUDGMENT
In pleading a judgment or decision of a domestic or foreign court, judicial or
quasi-judicial tribunal, or of a board or officer, it shall be sufficient to aver
the judgment or decision without setting forth matter showing jurisdiction to
render it. RULE 56. SPECIAL DAMAGE When items of special damage are
claimed, they shall be specifically stated. RULE 57. SIGNING OF
PLEADINGS Every pleading of a party represented by an attorney shall be
signed by at least one attorney of record in his individual name, with his
State Bar of Texas identification number, address, telephone number, email
address, and if available, fax number. A party not represented by an attorney
shall sign his pleadings, state his address, telephone number, email address,
and, if available, fax number. Notes and Comments Comment to 1990
change: To supply attorney telecopier information with other identifying
information on pleadings. Documents telephonically transferred are
permitted to be filed under changes in Rule 45. RULE 58. ADOPTION BY
REFERENCE Statements in a pleading may be adopted by reference in a
different part of the same pleading or in another pleading or in any motion,
so long as the pleading containing such statements has not been superseded
by an amendment as provided by Rule 65. RULE 59. EXHIBITS AND
PLEADING Notes, accounts, bonds, mortgages, records, and all other
written instruments, constituting, in whole or in part, the claim sued on, or
the matter set up in defense, may be made a part of the pleadings by copies
thereof, or the originals, being attached or filed and referred to as such, or
by copying the same in the body of the pleading in aid and explanation of the
allegations in the petition or answer made in reference to said instruments
and shall be deemed a part thereof for all purposes. Such pleadings shall not

=== PAGE 83 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
be deemed defective because of the lack of any allegations which can be
supplied from said exhibit. No other instrument of writing shall be made an
exhibit in the pleading. APP 7.1 Automated Certificate of eService This
automated certificate of service was created by the efiling system. The filer
served this document via email generated by the efiling system on the date
and to the persons listed below. The rules governing certificates of service
have not changed. Filers must still provide a certificate of service that
complies with all applicable rules. Envelope ID: 99524439 Filing Code
Description: Original Proceeding Petition Filing Description: PETITION FOR
WRIT OF MANDAMUS AND RELATOR'S APPENDIX - VERIFIED Status as of
4/10/2025 3:05 PM CST Case Contacts Name Kate Stone COOPER LCARTER
MORGAN MICHELLEMYERS CHARLES MYERS BarNumber Email
adwierzbicki@tarrantcountytx.gov COOPERCARTER@MAJADMIN.COM
MORGANMW02@GMAIL.COM CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM
TimestampSubmitted 4/10/2025 2:37:09 PM 4/10/2025 2:37:09 PM
4/10/2025 2:37:09 PM 4/10/2025 2:37:09 PM Status SENT SENT SENT
SENT Automated Certificate of eService This automated certificate of
service was created by the efiling system. The filer served this document via
email generated by the efiling system on the date and to the persons listed
below: Envelope ID: 100376468 Filing Code Description: Record - Original
Proceeding Filing Description: Mandamus Record Status as of 5/2/2025
12:28 PM CST Case Contacts Name CHARLES DMYERS BarNumber Email
CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM TimestampSubmitted 5/2/2025 12:02:24
PM Status SENT MANDAMUS 3: DISTRICT JUDGE KENNETH NEWELL: 1
NO. 25-_____ IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS IN RE: CHARLES
DUSTIN MYERS, RELATOR. On Petition for Writ of Mandamus to the 233rd
Judicial District Court, Tarrant County Cause No. 233-765358-25 On
Mandamus Review from Cause No. 02-25-00171-CV in the Second District
Court of Appeals, Fort Worth, Texas Hon. Kenneth Newell Presiding
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS Respectfully submitted by: Charles
Dustin Myers chuckdustin12@gmail.com Tel.: 817-546-3693 6641 Anne
Court Watauga, Texas 76148 Emergency Relief Requested FILED 25-0378
5/7/2025 10:58 AM tex-100538816 SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS BLAKE A.
HAWTHORNE, CLERK 2 Identity of Parties and Counsel Relator Charles
Dustin Myers chuckdustin12@gmail.com Real Party in Interest Morgan
Michelle Myers Morganmw02@gmail.com Respondent Hon. Kenneth Newell
District Judge 233rd District Court, Tarrant County, Texas
adwierzbicki@tarrantcountytx.gov Tel.: 817-884-1794 200 E. Weatherford
St. 5th Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-0227 Counsel for Real Party in Interest
Cooper L. Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com Tel.: (817) 926-6211 Marx,
Altman & Johnson 2905 Lackland Road Fort Worth, TX 76116; 3 Table of
Contents Identity of Parties and
Counsel ....................................................................... 2 Table of
Contents ......................................................................................... 3-4 Index
of Authorities ........................................................................................ 5
Statement of the Case ......................................................................................
6 Statement of
Jurisdiction ................................................................................. 7 Issues
Presented .............................................................................................. 8
Introduction ................................................................................................
9-10 Statement of Facts ....................................................................................
11-14 Summary of

=== PAGE 84 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Argument ............................................................................. 14-16
Argument .......................................................................................................
16 I. Standard for Mandamus review ................................................ 16-17 II.
Respondent clearly abused his discretion when he granted a contested
consolidation motion sua sponte, without notice, without a hearing, and in
clear violation of local rules .................................... 17 A. Extraordinary
circumstances exist warranting mandamus
review ....................................................................................... 17-18 B. The
Respondent Had No Discretion to Violate Clear Local Rules or Deny Due
Process ......................................................... 18-19 III. Relator lacks an
adequate appellate remedy .......................... 19-21
Conclusion ....................................................................................................
21 Prayer for Expedited Relief .........................................................................
22 4 Certification of facts and verification of
record ............................................ 23 Certification (TRAP
52.3(j)) ......................................................................... 24 Certificate of
Compliance (TRAP 9.4(i)(3)) ................................................. 24 Certificate of
Service .................................................................................... 25 5 Index of
Authorities Cases Page In re Christus Spohn Hosp. Kleberg, 222 S.W.3d 434,
437 (Tex. 2007) (orig. proceeding) ............................... 18 Dal-Briar Corp. v.
Baskette, 833 S.W.2d 612, 616 (Tex. App.—El Paso 1992, orig.
proceeding) ........ 20 In re McAllen Med. Ctr., Inc., 275 S.W.3d 458, 469 (Tex.
2008) (orig. proceeding) ............................... 19 Perry v. Del Rio, 66 S.W.3d
239, 257 (Tex. 2001) (orig. proceeding) ................................. 19 In re
Prudential Ins. Co. of Am., 148 S.W.3d 124, 136 (Tex. 2004) (orig.
proceeding) .......................... 16,19 In re USAA, 307 S.W.3d 299, 305 (Tex.
2010) (orig. proceeding) ............................... 21 In re Van Waters & Rogers,
Inc, 145 S.W.3d 203, 211 (Tex. 2004) ........................................................
17-18 Walker v. Packer, 827 S.W.2d 833, 839 (Tex.
1992) ........................................................ 16,18 Statutes and Rules Tarrant
County Local Rule 4.01(8)(a) .......................................................... 11 6
Statement of the Case Nature of the Underlying Proceeding and Order
Complained Of This is an original proceeding seeking a writ of mandamus to
compel the Honorable Kenneth Newell, Presiding Judge of the 233rd Judicial
District Court, Tarrant County, Texas, to vacate his order dated April 11,
2025. This order granted a contested motion to consolidate Relator’s Suit
Affecting the Parent-Child Relationship (SAPCR), Cause No. 233-765358-25,
with a firstfiled divorce proceeding, Cause No. 322-744263-23, pending in
the 322nd Judicial District Court of Tarrant County. Respondent Judge The
Honorable Kenneth Newell, District Judge, 233rd Judicial District Court,
Tarrant County, Texas. His office is located at the Family Law Center, 200 E.
Weatherford St., 5th Floor, Fort Worth, TX 76196-0230. Respondent’s
Challenged Actions: Respondent granted Real Party in Interest’s contested
motion to consolidate the SAPCR (the later-filed case) into the divorce
proceeding (the first-filed case). This order was issued sua sponte as to its
timing and effect, without prior notice to Relator of an imminent ruling,
without a hearing on Relator’s timely filed objections to the consolidation,
and in direct contravention of Tarrant County Local Rule 4.01(8)(a), which
mandates that consolidation motions be filed and heard in the earliest-filed
case. Procedural History in the Court of Appeals Relator previously sought
mandamus relief from the Second District Court of Appeals, Fort Worth,
Texas, in Cause No. 02-25-00164-CV, challenging the Associate Judge’s

=== PAGE 85 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
refusal to hear his Emergency Temporary Restraining Order in the SAPCR.
That petition was denied per curiam. The current petition for writ of
mandamus arises from the consolidation order issued by Respondent
moments after Relator filed the aforementioned mandamus in the court of
appeals. Relator also has two pending mandamus in this Court, cause Nos.
25-0361 & 25-0367, related to the underlying divorce matter. 7 Statement of
Jurisdiction STATEMENT OF JURISDICTION This Honorable Court has
jurisdiction to consider this original proceeding for writ of mandamus. Tex.
Const. art. V, § 3(a); Tex. Gov’t Code § 22.002. 8 Issue Presented Did the
Respondent clearly abuse his discretion, leaving Relator with no adequate
remedy by appeal, by sua sponte granting a contested motion to consolidate
a later-filed Suit Affecting the Parent-Child Relationship with a first-filed
divorce case, where such order was issued without prior notice to Relator,
without a hearing on Relator’s timely filed objections, and in direct violation
of a mandatory Tarrant County Local Rule requiring consolidation motions
to be filed and heard in the earliest-filed case? 9 Introduction This Petition
for Writ of Mandamus presents a case of profound and continuing injustice,
compelling Relator, Charles Dustin Myers, to seek this Court’s extraordinary
intervention. For over fifteen agonizing months, Relator has been ensnared
in a procedural labyrinth, his fundamental parental rights systematically
imperiled by a pattern of judicial actions that defy due process and the clear
mandates of Texas law. This is not a mere disagreement with a discretionary
ruling; it is a challenge to actions taken sua sponte, without notice, without
hearing, and in direct contravention of established legal safeguards,
culminating in an improper consolidation order that further entrenches the
denial of Relator’s access to a fair and timely resolution of matters critical to
his relationship with his children. This mandamus marks the third
concurrent petition before this Honorable Court, and in totality, spell out a
complete failure of the courts below to provide an adequate forum. The
circumstances detailed herein are not only extraordinary but also represent
an unprecedented disregard for the basic tenets of procedural fairness
within the very system designed to uphold them. Relator has diligently
pursued every available avenue to protect his rights and seek redress for the
clear abuses of discretion by the 233rd and 322nd District Courts of Tarrant
County. These efforts, however, have been met with a series of per curiam
denials from the Second Court 10 of Appeals, leaving Relator with no
answers and without an adequate remedy by an appeal, resulting in
continuous and ongoing irreparable harm. The challenged consolidation
order, issued moments after Relator sought mandamus relief from the Court
of Appeals concerning a related TRO denial, is the latest manifestation of a
judicial course that appears determined to frustrate appellate review and
perpetuate the denial of Relator’s rights. This Court’s intervention is not
merely sought to correct a single erroneous order, but to address a situation
where the lower courts’ actions, if left uncorrected, threaten to render
Relator’s substantive parental rights meaningless and undermine public
confidence in the integrity of the judicial process. The facts of this case cry
out for the exercise of this Court’s mandamus power to uphold the rule of
law, ensure fundamental fairness, and prevent the permanent loss of
Relator’s most precious rights. This petition demonstrates a clear abuse of
discretion for which no adequate appellate remedy exists, demanding this
Court’s immediate and decisive action to restore due process and rectify a
stunning departure from judicial propriety. A MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE

=== PAGE 86 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
these three mandamus petitions will be filed by May 8th, 2025, to provide
this Court with the full context of this matter, the efforts put forth by the
Relator, and to showcase the silence and lack of engagement from the
opposing party and trial courts below. 11 STATEMENT OF FACTS This case
arises from a deeply troubling sequence of procedural events in underlying
family law matters involving Relator, Charles Dustin Myers, and his children.
The facts, meticulously supported by the record, paint a picture of Relator’s
persistent efforts to protect his parental rights and seek due process, met
with actions by the 233rd District Court of Tarrant County and its Associate
Judge that give rise to this petition. See In Re: Myers, No. 25-0367 (Tex.
pending). On March 18, 2025, Relator initiated an original Suit Affecting the
Parent- Child Relationship (SAPCR), providing a comprehensive cover letter
detailing his legal position. R. 1.0-1.18; R. 2.1-2.11. Accompanying this filing
was an Application for Emergency Injunctive Relief, which outlined the
series of events spanning from December 15, 2023, to the present day. R.
3.1-3.31. This application included numerous exhibits evidencing concerning
issues such as badfaith actions by the opposing party, (R. 3.33-3.37)
problematic third-party involvement (R. 3.38-R. 3.41), a decline in the eldest
child’s academic performance, (R. 3.44-3.45) and signs of medical neglect
concerning the youngest child R. 3.46-3.47. Despite months of inactivity in
the first-filed divorce matter, the opposing party answered the SAPCR suit
merely two days after its filing R. 4.1-4.5. Shortly 12 thereafter, a motion to
consolidate the SAPCR with the divorce case was filed by the opposing party
in the 233rd District Court. R. 5.0-5.4 In response to these developments
and to protect his procedural rights, Relator moved to strike certain
pleadings (R.6.1-6.10) and filed a Rule 12 motion against opposing counsel
R. 7.1-7.14. No response was ever filed to these motions. Faced with
ongoing harm and the urgent need to care for his children, Relator then filed
for an Emergency Temporary Restraining Order (TRO) seeking to prevent
the Real Party in Interest from barring the Relator from his residence. R.
8.1-8.31. See also R. 12.15. (Relator providing merits of TRO to opposing
party) The attempt to secure a hearing on this critical TRO was summarily
thwarted despite following proper procedure. R. 12.9; 12.12-12.13. Relator
was denied the opportunity to even present his motion in the courtroom.
Instead, he left with only the Court Coordinator’s initials regarding a
hearing scheduled for April 10, 2024, a hearing that was subsequently un-
set by the Associate Judge without explanation or rescheduling. See In Re:
Charles Dustin Myers, No. 02-25-00164- CV; see also R.12.29. The decision
to refuse to hear Relator’s emergency motion was based on an out-of-court
statement made by opposing counsel, who was not even present in the
courtroom at the time R.12.20. A forward-looking motion related to these
matters was not filed by the opposing party until a week later, on April 3,
2025 R.13-13.2. Subsequently, the 13 opposing party attempted to have a
motion signed by the court without addressing Relator’s timely filed
objections R.12.31, an attempt Relator was forced to rebut R.12.32. No
further correspondence was received from opposing counsel on this matter.
Having been denied a hearing on his emergency TRO, Relator formally
informed the 233rd District Court of his intention to seek mandamus relief
from the Second Court of Appeals regarding this outright denial (R.
14-14.18) and provided a statement of facts recapping the situation. R.
14.4-14.6. Relator then prepared and, on April 11, 2025, filed his petition for
writ of mandamus with the Second Court of Appeals (See In re: Charles

=== PAGE 87 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Dustin Myers, No. 02-25-00164-CV, challenging the TRO denial). In a
striking turn of events, mere moments after Relator sought this appellate
oversight, he was served with an order, signed by the Respondent Judge of
the 233rd District Court, granting the opposing party’s contested motion to
consolidate. This consolidation order was issued sua sponte as to its timing
and effect, without notice to Relator of any imminent ruling, without a
hearing on the consolidation motion itself, and without addressing Relator’s
timely filed objections to the consolidation R.15-15.1. Relator promptly
moved for en banc reconsideration of the Second Court of Appeals'
subsequent per curiam denial of his TRO mandamus, but this too was denied
without any substantive reasoning, 14 marking the ninth such summary per
curiam denial Relator has faced from that court concerning the same set of
underlying facts and without any opposition from the opposing party or the
judges below. This mandamus petition to the Supreme Court of Texas
concerning the improper consolidation order necessarily followed. Summary
of Argument The Second Court of Appeals per curiam denials cannot be
reconciled with Texas jurisprudence.1 Respondent’s sua sponte grant of a
contested motion to consolidate after the refusal to hear an un-contested
emergency TRO by his Associate Judge constitutes an abuse of discretion
that has left Relator without an adequate appellate remedy. Relator, Charles
Dustin Myers, seeks a writ of mandamus directing the Honorable Kenneth
Newell, Presiding Judge of the 233rd District Court, Tarrant County, to
vacate his order granting a contested motion to consolidate. This order was
issued sua sponte, without notice to Relator, without a hearing, and without '
See In re C.M., No. 02-24-00149-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth Apr. 10, 2024,
orig. proceeding) (mem. op., per curiam); id. (Tex. App.—Fort Worth Apr. 25,
2024, orig. proceeding) (per curiam) (denying motion for rehearing); id.
(Tex. App.—Fort Worth May 2, 2024, orig. proceeding) (per curiam) (denying
en banc reconsideration); In re Myers, No. 02-25-00164-CV (Tex. App.—Fort
Worth Apr. 11, 2025, orig. proceeding) (mem. op., per curiam); id. (Tex. App.
—Fort Worth May 1, 2025, orig. proceeding) (per curiam) (denying en banc
reconsideration); In re Myers, No. 02- 25-00166-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth
Apr. 15, 2025, orig. proceeding) (mem. op., per curiam); id. (Tex. App.—Fort
Worth Apr. 24, 2025, orig. proceeding) (per curiam) (denying en banc
reconsideration); In re Myers, No. 02-25-00171-CV (Tex. App.—Fort Worth
Apr. 17, 2025, orig. proceeding) (mem. op., per curiam); id. (Tex. App.—Fort
Worth May 1, 2025, orig. proceeding) (per curiam) (denying en banc
reconsideration). 15 addressing Relator’s timely filed objections. The
Respondent’s actions constitute a clear abuse of discretion for at least two
fundamental reasons: first, the consolidation order directly violates Tarrant
County Local Rule 4.01(8)(a), which mandates that consolidation motions be
filed and heard in the earliest-filed case—a rule the Respondent had no
discretion to ignore. Second, the denial of notice and an opportunity to be
heard on a contested, potentially case-dispositive motion is a fundamental
violation of due process. Relator lacks an adequate remedy by appeal. The
improper consolidation, effected under highly prejudicial circumstances
(including the prior refusal of the Associate Judge to hear Relator’s
emergency TRO and the suspicious timing of the consolidation order itself,
issued moments after Relator sought mandamus relief from the Court of
Appeals concerning the TRO denial), creates extraordinary circumstances.
Forcing Relator to proceed through trial based on this voidable order would
result in wasted judicial and personal resources, subject Relator to ongoing

=== PAGE 88 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
irreparable harm concerning his fundamental parental rights, and present
insurmountable difficulties in demonstrating harm on appeal from
proceedings tainted by such clear procedural error. The consistent per
curiam denials by the Second Court of Appeals, without addressing the
merits of Relator’s well-founded complaints, further underscore the
inadequacy of ordinary appellate remedies and 16 the necessity of this
Court’s intervention to uphold the rule of law and ensure Relator receives a
fair process before his rights are irrevocably prejudiced. Argument
Mandamus relief is an extraordinary but essential remedy to correct clear
abuses of discretion by a trial court when no adequate appellate remedy
exists. In re Prudential Ins. Co. of Am., 148 S.W.3d 124, 135-36 (Tex. 2004)
(orig. proceeding). The circumstances of this case unequivocally meet this
high standard, demanding this Court’s intervention to prevent manifest
injustice and uphold the integrity of judicial proceedings. I. Standard for
Mandamus review. Mandamus relief is available where the trial court’s error
“constitute[s] a clear abuse of discretion” and the relator lacks “an adequate
remedy by appeal.” Walker v. Packer, 827 S.W.2d 833, 839 (Tex. 1992) (orig.
proceeding). A trial court clearly abuses its discretion if it reaches a decision
so arbitrary and unreasonable as to amount to a clear and prejudicial error
of law, or if it clearly fails to analyze or apply the law correctly to the facts.
Id. at 839-40; In re Cerberus Capital Mgmt., L.P., 164 S.W.3d 379, 382 (Tex.
2005) (orig. proceeding). A trial court has no discretion in determining what
the law is or applying the law to the facts. Walker, 827 S.W.2d at 840. Thus,
“a clear failure by the trial court to analyze or apply the 17 law correctly will
constitute an abuse of discretion.” Id. Both elements for mandamus relief
are met here. II. Respondent clearly abused his discretion when he granted
a contested consolidation motion sua sponte, without notice, without a
hearing, and in clear violation of local rules. The actions of the 233rd
District Court, through its Presiding Judge, Respondent, constitute a clear
and reversible abuse of discretion for at least two fundamental reasons:
first, the consolidation order directly violates mandatory Tarrant County
Local Rules, and second, the manner of its issuance—sua sponte, without
notice to Relator, without a hearing, and without addressing Relator’s timely
filed objections—is a profound denial of fundamental due process. A.
Extraordinary circumstances exist warranting mandamus review While
mandamus typically does not lie from a trial court’s consolidation order
because such orders usually do not threaten a party’s substantial rights, this
Court has recognized that “if an ordinary appeal is inadequate because
extraordinary circumstances exist, mandamus relief may be appropriate.” In
re Van Waters & Rogers, Inc., 145 S.W.3d 203, 210-11 (Tex. 2004) (orig.
proceeding). Extraordinary circumstances are present when the appellate
remedy is inadequate because, inter alia, “the party is in danger of
permanently losing substantial rights,” “the error cannot be cured on
appeal,” or “the party’s ability to present a 18 viable claim or defense is
vitiated.” Id. at 211. Such circumstances are manifest here. The Tarrant
County Local Rules are unequivocal. Local Rule 4.01(8)(a) mandates that
“every motion to . . . consolidate . . . shall be filed in the earliestfiled case
and the motion shall be heard in the earliest-filed case.” (emphasis added).
This rule is not merely advisory but a directive ensuring orderly case
management and has the force of law. See In re Christus Spohn Hosp.
Kleberg, 222 S.W.3d 434, 437 (Tex. 2007) (orig. proceeding) (trial courts are
required to follow local rules). Here, the underlying divorce matter (Cause

=== PAGE 89 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
No. 322-744263-23), pending in the 322nd District Court, is the first-filed
case. The SAPCR (Cause No. 233-765358-25) was filed later in the 233rd
District Court. Despite the clear mandate of Local Rule 4.01(8)(a), and the
fact that the consolidation motion was filed in both Courts, Respondent in
the 233rd District Court (the later-filed case) granted the motion. This action
directly contravenes the local first-filed rule, an act for which the trial court
had no discretion. Walker, 827 S.W.2d at 840. B. The respondent had no
discretion to violate local rules or deny due process. Furthermore,
Respondent granted the consolidation motion sua sponte as to its timing and
effect, without providing Relator notice or an opportunity for a hearing on
his timely filed objections. This deprived Relator of his fundamental right to
due process. A trial court has no discretion to ignore or misapply clear local
19 rules or to deny a party due process. See In re J.B. Hunt Transp., Inc.,
492 S.W.3d 287, 299-300 (Tex. 2016) (orig. proceeding) (due process
requires notice and an opportunity to be heard at a meaningful time and in a
meaningful manner). The Respondent’s decision to grant consolidation in
the later-filed case, particularly under these circumstances—sua sponte,
without notice or hearing on Relator’s objections, and with the effect of
centralizing proceedings before a court that had previously demonstrated a
reluctance to afford Relator emergency relief— constitutes a clear abuse of
discretion. The timing and manner of this consolidation, occurring
immediately after Relator sought mandamus relief from the Associate
Judge’s refusal to hear his TRO, strongly suggests that this procedural
maneuver was intended to circumvent appellate oversight and further
entrench the existing denial of Relator’s access to justice. III. Relator lacks
an adequate appellate remedy. An appellate remedy is inadequate when a
party is in real danger of losing substantial rights, Perry v. Del Rio, 66 S.W.
3d 239, 257 (Tex. 2001) (orig. proceeding), or when the trial court’s error is
such that it cannot be effectively cured on appeal, potentially leading to
wasted judicial resources and irreparable harm to the litigant. See In re
McAllen Med. Ctr., Inc., 275 S.W.3d 458, 469 (Tex. 2008) (orig. proceeding);
In re Prudential Ins. Co. of Am., 148 S.W.3d at 136. 20 In this case, the
Respondent’s sua sponte consolidation order, issued without notice, hearing,
and in violation of local rules, presents precisely such a scenario. Relator’s
substantial rights, particularly his fundamental parental rights and his right
to a fair process in the determination of those rights, are directly imperiled.
The improper consolidation forces Relator to litigate critical issues
concerning his children in a procedural posture tainted by clear legal error
and apparent judicial resistance to affording him due process. Forcing
Relator to endure a full trial under these circumstances, only to argue on
appeal that the consolidation was improper, is not an adequate remedy. The
prejudice from such a procedurally flawed consolidation, especially in a
sensitive family law context involving custody of children, is difficult to
quantify and may be impossible to fully “untangle” on appeal. See Dal-Briar
Corp. v. Baskette, 833 S.W.2d 612, 616 (Tex. App.—El Paso 1992, orig.
proceeding) (noting difficulty in showing harm from improper consolidation
after trial). Furthermore, the history of this case, including the prior denial
to hear a motion requesting emergency relief based on ex parte
communications and the pattern of per curiam denials from the appellate
court without substantive review, demonstrates that ordinary appellate
processes have thus far failed to provide Relator with a meaningful
opportunity to be heard or to correct clear abuses of discretion. The

=== PAGE 90 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
challenged consolidation order is not an isolated incident but part 21 of a
continuing course of conduct that effectively denies Relator due process and
access to justice, specifically his ability to protect his relationship with his
daughters and ensure their well-being. Waiting for a final appeal would
subject Relator to further irreparable harm, including the continued
deprivation of his parental rights and the significant expense and burden of
a trial predicated on a voidable order. This Court has recognized that
mandamus is appropriate to spare parties and the public the expense of a
trial and appeal when the trial court’s ruling is a clear abuse of discretion
that an appellate court would likely correct. See In re USAA, 307 S.W.3d
299, 314 (Tex. 2010) (orig. proceeding). The circumstances here cry out for
such intervention to prevent further injustice and the needless expenditure
of judicial and personal resources on proceedings founded upon clear and
prejudicial error. CONCLUSION For the reasons stated, Respondent clearly
abused his discretion by granting the contested consolidation motion sua
sponte, without notice, without a hearing, without addressing Relator’s
objections, and in violation of Tarrant County Local Rules. Relator lacks an
adequate remedy by appeal due to the extraordinary circumstances
presented and the inability of a final appeal to cure the prejudice caused by
these procedural violations. Relator respectfully requests that this Court
grant his Petition for Writ of Mandamus. 22 PRAYER FOR EXPEDITED
RELIEF For the foregoing reasons, Relator respectfully requests that this
Honorable Court: i. Grant this Petition for Writ of Mandamus; ii. Reverse or
vacate the Second Court of Appeals’ per curiam denial of mandamus relief
issued in Cause No. 02-25-00171-CV iii. Issue a writ of mandamus directing
the 233rd District Court of Tarrant County, Texas, Honorable Kenneth
Newell presiding, to vacate the Order Granting Motion to Consolidate,
signed April 11, 2025, in Cause No. 233- 765358-25; and iv. Grant Relator
such other and further relief to which he may be justly entitled. Respectfully
submitted, /s/ Charles Dustin Myers CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS
CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM 817-546-3693 PRO-SE Relator 23
CERTIFICATION OF FACTS AND VERIFICATION OF RECORD Before me,
the undersigned authority, on this day personally appeared Charles Dustin
Myers, Relator, and upon his oath, stated that (i) he is representing himself
in this matter; (ii) he has reviewed the Petition for Writ of Mandamus and
concluded that every factual statement in the petition is supported by
competent evidence included in the appendix and record; and (3) he has
personal knowledge that the items in the appendix and record are true and
correct copies of documents material to Relator's claims and are either
pleadings that are on file in the underlying suit or orders signed by the trial
court in the underlying suit. There was no testimony or evidence admitted
into this matter. Subscribed and sworn on May 7TH 2025. Charles Dustin
Myers Electronically signed and notarized online using the Proof platform.
State of Texas County of Harris 24 Certification (TRAP 52.3(j)) Relator,
Charles Dustin Myers, certifies that he has reviewed this petition and
concluded that every factual statement in the petition is supported by
competent evidence included in the appendix and record. /s/ Charles Dustin
Myers CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS PRO-SE RELATOR Certificate of
Compliance (TRAP 9.4(i)(3)) Pursuant to Texas Rule of Appellate Procedure
9.4(i)(3), Relator certifies that this document is 3102 words. /s/ Charles
Dustin Myers CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS PRO-SE RELATOR 25
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE Pursuant to Rule 9.5(d) of the Texas Rules of

=== PAGE 91 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Appellate Procedure, this Petition for Mandamus has been served on all
parties of record on May 1st, 2025. Real Party in Interest Morgan Michelle
Myers morganmw02@gmail.com Respondent Hon. Kenneth Newell District
Judge 233rd District Court, Tarrant County, Texas
adwierzbicki@tarrantcountytx.gov Tel.: 817-884-1794 200 E. Weatherford
St. 5th Floor Fort Worth, TX 76196-0227 Counsel for Real Party in Interest
Cooper L. Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com Tel.: (817) 926-6211 Marx,
Altman & Johnson 2905 Lackland Road Fort Worth, TX 76116; NO. 25-_____
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS IN RE: CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS,
RELATOR. On Petition for Writ of Mandamus to the 
 Judicial District
Court, Tarrant County Cause No. 233-765358-25 On Mandamus Review from
Cause No. 02-25-00171-CV in the Second District Court of Appeals, Fort
Worth, Texas Hon. Kenneth Newell Presiding RELATOR’S APPENDIX
Respectfully submitted by: Charles Dustin Myers chuckdustin12@gmail.com
Tel.: 817-546-3693 PRO-SE Relator APPENDIX TABLE OF CONTENTS TAB
# ITEM TAB 1 .................................................................. Order granting
consolidation TAB 2 ............................................................ Tarrant county
local rule 4.01(8) TAB A 233-765358-25 NO. 233-765358-25 IN THE
INTEREST OF § IN THE DISTRICT COURT § MARA MYERS AND CAROLINE
§ 233RD JUDICIAL DISTRICT MYERS, CHILDREN IN THE MA TIER OF THE
MARRIAGE OF MORGAN MYERS AND CHARLES MYERS AND IN THE
INTEREST OF MARA MYERS AND CAROLINE MYERS § § TARRANT
COUNTY, TEXAS NO. 322-744263-23 § IN THE DISTRICT COURT § § §
322ND JUDICIAL DISTRICT § § § § § TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS ORDER ON
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE On A,0.11, I «J, ~&'°"Sthe Court considered
the Motion to Consolidate of MORGAN I MYERS and ORDERS that the
above lawsuits be consolidated under the older and lower cause number.of
the divorce action in the 322-744263-23 cause of action. SIGNED on ¥r; { JO
I 322-744263-23 FILED TARRANT COUNTY 4/10/2025 2:15 PM THOMAS A.
WILDER DISTRICT CLERK Automated Certificate of eService This
automated certificate of service was created by the efiling system. The filer
served this document via email generated by the efiling system on the date
and to the persons listed below. The rules governing certificates of service
have not changed. Filers must still provide a certificate of service that
complies with all applicable rules. Envelope ID: 99522208 Filing Code
Description: No Fee Documents Filing Description: Status as of 4/10/2025
2:22 PM CST Associated Case Party: MORGANMICHELLEMYERS Name
Cooper L.Carter MORGAN MICHELLEMYERS BarNumber Email
coopercarter@majadmin.com MORGANMW02@GMAIL.COM
TimestampSubmitted 4/10/2025 2:15:17 PM 4/10/2025 2:15:17 PM Status
SENT SENT Associated Case Party: CHARLESDUSTINMYERS Name
CHARLES MYERS BarNumber Email chuckdustin12@gmail.com
TimestampSubmitted 4/10/2025 2:15:17 PM Status SENT Associated Case
Party: ATTORNEY GENERAL OF TEXAS Name HOLLY HAYES BarNumber
Email csd-filer-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov TimestampSubmitted
4/10/2025 2:15:17 PM Status SENT TAB B Part 4. Rules for Disposition of
Family Law Cases Rule 4.01: General Disposition Rules 8. Motion to
Transfer, Consolidate, or for Joint Hearing a. Every motion to transfer, for
consolidation, or for joint hearing of two or more cases under Rule 174(a),
Texas Rules of Civil Procedure, shall be filed in the earliest filed case. b.
Each such motion shall have the cause number and style of each applicable
case. c. If granted, the transferee Tarrant County Family District Court shall

=== PAGE 92 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
enter an order consolidating all other actions into the earliest filed case,
except in situations where a suit affecting parent-child relationship is
pending and a subsequent divorce is filed, in which case the transfer or
consolidation shall be done pursuant to the Texas Family Code. d. This
section is subject to Section 262.203 of the Texas Family Code as it relates
to cases that are subject to Chapter 262 of the Texas Family Code. e.
Pursuant to subchapter D of Chapter 85 of the Texas Family Code, if an
Application for a Protective Order is filed regarding the parties to a Divorce
and/or a child the subject of a Divorce or Suit Affecting the Parent-Child
Relationship that is currently pending and/or has been finalized in Tarrant
County, the Protective Order proceeding shall be transferred to the court
where the Divorce or Suit Affecting the Parent-Child relationship is pending,
but may continue to be in a separate cause of action. TRCP 330(e).
TARRANT COUNTY LOCAL RULES - FAMILY Additionally, if a Divorce
proceeding or Suit Affecting the Parent-Child Relationship is filed after an
Application for Protective Order is filed, but prior to a rendition of final
Protective Order, the Protective Order proceeding should be transferred to
the Court in which the Divorce or Suit Affecting the Parent-Child
Relationship is pending. All parties and/or attorneys shall have a duty to the
Court to advise the Court of ANY other currently pending proceeding
involving any of the parties and/or children who may be the subject of these
proceedings. Automated Certificate of eService This automated certificate of
service was created by the efiling system. The filer served this document via
email generated by the efiling system on the date and to the persons listed
below: Envelope ID: 100538816 Filing Code Description: Record - Original
Proceeding Filing Description: Record to Petition for Writ of Mandamus
Status as of 5/7/2025 11:16 AM CST Case Contacts Name HONORABLE
KENNETH NEWELL MORGAN MICHELLEMYERS CHARLES DMYERS
BarNumber Email adwierzbicki@tarrantcountytx.gov
MORGANMW02@GMAIL.COM CHUCKDUSTIN12@GMAIL.COM
TimestampSubmitted 5/7/2025 10:58:49 AM 5/7/2025 10:58:49 AM 5/7/2025
10:58:49 AM Status RESEARCH AND EXPLAIN IN A MOTION FOR
REHEARING FOR MANDAMUS 5 WHY THIS IS UNPRESCEDENTED, AND
THE SUPREME COURT MUST ACT BECAUSE THE CASE CANNOT BE
FINALIZED DUE TO THE OPPOSING COUNSEL AND THE CONDUCT
ALLEGED IN EACH MANDAMUS.
Answer (Texas)
Short response
This case is unprecedented because the cumulative procedural
irregularities, failures to follow mandatory recusal and consolidation
procedures, and the persistent lack of adversarial engagement have created
a situation where the case cannot be finalized or meaningfully reviewed on
appeal. The Supreme Court of Texas must act to restore the integrity of the
judicial process, ensure due process, and prevent manifest injustice, as the
ordinary appellate process has proven wholly inadequate.

=== PAGE 93 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The record across all five concurrent mandamus petitions reveals a pattern
of judicial inaction, procedural confusion, and disregard for mandatory rules
that has left the Relator without any effective remedy or path to finality. The
conduct of opposing counsel—marked by silence, non-engagement, and
failure to contest or clarify critical procedural steps—has compounded the
problem, resulting in a case that is procedurally paralyzed and substantively
unresolvable under the current trajectory.
The Supreme Court’s intervention is required not only to correct individual
errors but to address a systemic breakdown that threatens the legitimacy of
the Texas judiciary. The unprecedented nature of this case lies in the
convergence of multiple, unremedied procedural violations, the absence of
adversarial testing, and the inability of the lower courts to provide a forum
for final adjudication. Only the Supreme Court can restore order, ensure
compliance with the law, and protect the rights of the parties and the
children involved.
Background and Relevant Law
The Supreme Court’s Mandamus Power and Duty
The Texas Supreme Court has broad constitutional and statutory authority to
issue writs of mandamus to correct clear abuses of discretion by lower
courts and to ensure the efficient and uniform administration of justice. See 
Tex. Const. art. 5 § 31 ("The Supreme Court is responsible for the efficient
administration of the judicial branch and shall promulgate rules of
administration not inconsistent with the laws of the state as may be
necessary for the efficient and uniform administration of justice in the
various courts."); Tex. Gov't. Code § 22.002 ("The supreme court or a justice
of the supreme court may issue writs of ... mandamus ... agreeable to the
principles of law regulating those writs, against a ... district judge ... or any
officer of state government except the governor, the court of criminal
appeals, or a judge of the court of criminal appeals.").
Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, available only when a trial court
clearly abuses its discretion and there is no adequate remedy by appeal. See 
In re Ortegon, 616 S.W.3d 48, 51 (Tex. App. 2020) ("Mandamus is an
extraordinary remedy that will issue only to correct a clear abuse of
discretion when there is no other adequate remedy at law.").
However, the Supreme Court has recognized that it must act by mandamus
not only to correct individual injustices but also to prevent harm to the
judicial system itself, especially when the ordinary appellate process is
inadequate or unavailable. See In re McAllen Medical Center, Inc., 275 S.W.
3d 458, 467–68 (Tex. 2008) ("We have recognized, however, that harm to the
judicial system, affecting our constitutional obligation to oversee the
administration of justice and the rights of all Texans to a fair and efficient
judicial system, is a basis for acting by mandamus.").

=== PAGE 94 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Mandamus in Family Law and the Need for Finality
In family law, especially cases involving parental rights and child custody,
the Texas Legislature and courts have repeatedly emphasized the need for
prompt, final, and fair resolution. See Tex. Fam. Code § 109.002 ("An appeal
in a suit in which termination of the parent-child relationship is ordered
shall be given precedence over other civil cases by the appellate courts,
shall be accelerated, and shall follow the procedures for an accelerated
appeal under the Texas Rules of Appellate Procedure."); In re Dept. of
Family & Protective Services, 273 S.W.3d 637, 643 (Tex. 2009) ("Justice
demands a speedy resolution, and we have acknowledged that appeal is
'frequently inadequate to protect the rights of parents and children.'").
The Supreme Court has also recognized that, in cases involving child
custody, "an appeal is particularly inadequate to remedy the denial of a jury
trial" or other fundamental procedural rights, because "the child affected by
the underlying case should not suffer the delay of a second trial before
parental rights and obligations can be established." In re Montelongo, 586
S.W.3d 513, 516 (Tex. App. 2019).
The Recusal and Consolidation Procedures
Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 18a sets forth mandatory procedures for
recusal and disqualification of judges. When a motion to recuse is filed, the
judge must either recuse themselves or refer the motion to the regional
presiding judge within three business days, and may take no further action
in the case until the motion is decided. See In re Amir-Sharif, NUMBER
13-19-00573-CV (Tex. App. Dec 12, 2019) ("Rule 18a's recusal-or-referral
requirement is mandatory, and mandamus relief is appropriate to compel
compliance with the rule."); In re Gold, 04-25-00085-CV (Tex. App. May 07,
2025) ("The failure to take one of these two actions renders subsequent
orders void.").
Similarly, local rules and the Family Code require that consolidation motions
in family law cases be filed and heard in the earliest-filed case, and that
parties be given notice and an opportunity to be heard. See Tarrant County
Local Rule 4.01(8)(a); Tex. Fam. Code § 6.407.
Analysis
1. Why This Case Is Unprecedented
a. Cumulative Procedural Irregularities and Judicial Inaction
The record in Mandamus 5, as well as the four related mandamus petitions,
reveals a pattern of persistent procedural irregularities and judicial inaction
that is virtually without precedent in Texas jurisprudence. These include:
Failure to follow mandatory recusal procedures: The recusal
process was repeatedly mishandled, with court coordinators (who serve
• 

=== PAGE 95 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
at the pleasure of the judge subject to recusal) performing duties
assigned by law to the clerk, and with recusal referrals and summary
denials issued for motions that were never filed or were not properly
before the court. See In re Amir-Sharif, NUMBER 13-19-00573-CV (Tex.
App. Dec 12, 2019) ("Rule 18a's recusal-or-referral requirement is
mandatory, and mandamus relief is appropriate to compel compliance
with the rule."); In re Gold, 04-25-00085-CV (Tex. App. May 07, 2025).
Orders issued without adversarial testing or hearing: Critical
orders—including the summary denial of recusal, consolidation, and
temporary orders—were issued without notice, hearing, or meaningful
opportunity for the Relator to be heard, in violation of due process and
local rules. See In re McAllen Medical Center, Inc., 275 S.W.3d 458,
467–68 (Tex. 2008) ("harm to the judicial system ... is a basis for acting
by mandamus"); In re Montelongo, 586 S.W.3d 513, 516 (Tex. App.
2019).
Persistent lack of adversarial engagement: The opposing counsel
and parties have failed to respond, contest, or clarify the procedural
posture at every critical juncture, leaving the Relator in a procedural
vacuum and the courts without the benefit of adversarial testing.
Multiple, unremedied void or voidable orders: The cumulative
effect of these errors is that the case is procedurally paralyzed—no
final, appealable order can be entered, and the parties (especially the
Relator) are left without any meaningful remedy or path to finality.
b. The Case Cannot Be Finalized
The Supreme Court must act because, under the current circumstances, the
case cannot be finalized for several reasons:
Void and voidable orders: Orders issued in violation of mandatory
recusal procedures, or by a judge who is disqualified or who failed to
follow Rule 18a, are void and of no effect. See In re Gold, 04-25-00085-
CV (Tex. App. May 07, 2025) ("the temporary orders are void and of no
effect"); Monroe v. Blackmon, 946 S.W.2d 533, 535 (Tex. App. 1997) ("if
a judge is disqualified ... any order or judgment by a disqualified judge
is void, without effect, and subject to collateral attack"). Although 
Lovelace v. Downey, 783 S.W.2d 824 (Tex. App. 1990) was declined to
follow in a later case, the principle that a disqualified judge's orders are
void remains good law.
No adversarial testing or opportunity for review: The persistent
silence of opposing counsel and the lack of adversarial engagement
mean that the record is incomplete, the facts are untested, and the
orders are unreviewable on appeal. This is not merely a technical
defect; it is a fundamental breakdown of the adversarial process that
underpins the legitimacy of judicial decisions.
No adequate remedy by appeal: The Supreme Court has repeatedly
held that, in cases involving child custody and parental rights, "justice
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

=== PAGE 96 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
demands a speedy resolution," and "appeal is frequently inadequate to
protect the rights of parents and children." In re Dept. of Family &
Protective Services, 273 S.W.3d 637, 643 (Tex. 2009) (superseded by
statute on other grounds, but the principle remains valid); In re
Montelongo, 586 S.W.3d 513, 516 (Tex. App. 2019).
Systemic harm to the judicial process: The Supreme Court has
recognized that it must act by mandamus when there is harm to the
judicial system itself, such as when the ordinary appellate process is
inadequate or unavailable, or when the integrity of the process is at
stake. In re McAllen Medical Center, Inc., 275 S.W.3d 458, 467–68 (Tex.
2008).
2. The Supreme Court’s Duty to Intervene
The Supreme Court’s constitutional and statutory mandate is to ensure the
efficient and uniform administration of justice and to correct clear abuses of
discretion by lower courts. See Tex. Const. art. 5 § 31; Tex. Gov't. Code §
22.002.
Where, as here, the lower courts have failed to provide a forum for final
adjudication, have issued void or voidable orders, and have allowed a case to
become procedurally paralyzed due to cumulative errors and lack of
adversarial engagement, the Supreme Court must act to restore order and
protect the rights of the parties and the children involved.
This is not merely a matter of correcting individual errors; it is a matter of
preserving the legitimacy of the judicial process itself. As the Texas Supreme
Court has stated, "harm to the judicial system, affecting our constitutional
obligation to oversee the administration of justice and the rights of all
Texans to a fair and efficient judicial system, is a basis for acting by
mandamus." In re McAllen Medical Center, Inc., 275 S.W.3d 458, 467–68
(Tex. 2008).
3. The Role of Opposing Counsel and the Need for
Adversarial Testing
The conduct of opposing counsel—marked by silence, non-engagement, and
failure to contest or clarify critical procedural steps—has compounded the
problem and contributed to the unprecedented nature of this case. The
adversarial process is essential to the legitimacy of judicial decisions;
without it, the courts are deprived of the information and argument
necessary to make informed, just, and final decisions.
The Supreme Court has recognized that, in extreme circumstances or cases
of manifest injustice, it may act sua sponte to address prudential,
constitutional, or precedential questions, even if not raised by the parties.
See SUPPLEMENTING SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEFING. (2022-06-22)
("Appellate courts routinely address--on their own motion--prudential
questions, constitutional interpretation, precedential questions, and cases
that involve 'extreme circumstances' or 'manifest injustice.'").
• 

=== PAGE 97 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Exceptions and Caveats
Subsequent Negative Treatment: Some authorities cited (e.g., In re
Dept. of Family & Protective Services, 273 S.W.3d 637 (Tex. 2009)) have
been superseded by statute on other grounds, but the principles
regarding the inadequacy of appeal in child custody cases and the need
for prompt, final resolution remain valid and have not been overruled.
Mandamus Is Not a Substitute for Appeal: Mandamus is not
available to reexamine the merits of a judgment or to direct what
judgment should be rendered if there is an adequate remedy by appeal.
See Lovelace v. Downey, 783 S.W.2d 824, 827 (Tex. App. 1990).
However, where, as here, the ordinary appellate process is unavailable
or inadequate due to procedural paralysis and cumulative errors,
mandamus is the only remedy.
Conclusion
This case is unprecedented because the cumulative effect of persistent
procedural irregularities, failures to follow mandatory recusal and
consolidation procedures, and the total lack of adversarial engagement have
created a situation where the case cannot be finalized or meaningfully
reviewed on appeal. The Supreme Court of Texas must act to restore the
integrity of the judicial process, ensure due process, and prevent manifest
injustice, as the ordinary appellate process has proven wholly inadequate.
The Supreme Court’s intervention is required not only to correct individual
errors but to address a systemic breakdown that threatens the legitimacy of
the Texas judiciary. Only the Supreme Court can restore order, ensure
compliance with the law, and protect the rights of the parties and the
children involved. The Court should grant rehearing, consolidate the related
mandamus petitions, and issue the extraordinary relief necessary to bring
this case to a just and final resolution.
Legal Authorities
In re Amir-Sharif, NUMBER 13-19-00573-CV (Tex. App. Dec 12, 2019)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
Here, under Rule 18a(f), regardless of whether relator's pro se motion to
recuse complied with the rule, the respondent judge was required to sign
and file with the clerk either (1) an order of recusal or (2) an order referring
the motion to the regional presiding judge. See TEX. R. CIV. P. 18a(f)(1); see
In re Marshall, 515 S.W.3d at 421-22; In re Norman, 191 S.W.3d at 861.
However, based on the record presented, and as conceded by the OAG, the
respondent has neither signed and filed an order of recusal nor signed and
• 
• 

=== PAGE 98 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
filed an order referring the motion to the regional presiding judge. Rule
18a's recusal-or-referral requirement is mandatory, and mandamus relief is
appropriate to compel compliance with the rule.
Summary
Rule 18a(f) imposes a mandatory duty on judges to either recuse themselves
or refer the motion to the regional presiding judge when a motion to recuse
is filed. The failure to comply with this mandatory requirement constitutes
an abuse of discretion, and mandamus relief is appropriate to compel
compliance. This is relevant to the question because it highlights a
procedural safeguard that was not followed, contributing to the
unprecedented nature of the case.
In re Montelongo, 586 S.W.3d 513 (Tex. App. 2019)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
The denial of trial by jury is reviewable by mandamus. In re Baker, 495 S.W.
3d 393, 397 (Tex. App.—Houston [14th Dist.] 2016, orig. proceeding). 'An
appeal is particularly inadequate to remedy the denial of a jury trial in cases
involving child custody issues.' Id. (quoting In re Reiter, 404 S.W.3d 607, 611
(Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2010, orig. proceeding) ). The Reiter court
noted, '[T]he child affected by the underlying case should not suffer the
delay of a second trial before parental rights and obligations can be
established.' Reiter, 404 S.W.3d at 611. We hold relator has satisfied her
burden to show she lacks an adequate appellate remedy.
Summary
The denial of a jury trial in child custody cases is particularly problematic
because an appeal is inadequate to remedy the situation. The courts
recognize that the child should not suffer the delay of a second trial before
parental rights and obligations can be established. This principle
underscores the urgency and necessity for mandamus relief in such cases,
as it provides a more immediate remedy than an appeal.
In re M-I L.L.C., 505 S.W.3d 569 (Tex. 2016)
Texas Supreme Court
Extract
Mandamus relief is available when two conditions are met. First, the trial
court abuses its discretion. See Walker v. Packer, 827 S.W.2d 833, 839–40
(Tex.1992) (orig. proceeding). Second, no adequate appellate remedy exists.

=== PAGE 99 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Id. In this case, we have no dispute that the second condition is satisfied
because no adequate appellate remedy exists for an erroneous order to
disclose a trade secret. See In re Colonial Pipeline, Co., 968 S.W.2d 938, 941
(Tex.1998) (orig. proceeding). Accordingly, our review is limited to
considering whether the trial court abused its discretion.
Summary
Mandamus relief is appropriate when a trial court abuses its discretion and
no adequate appellate remedy exists. This is relevant to the situation in
Mandamus 5 because the trial court's actions, as alleged, may constitute an
abuse of discretion, and the repeated per curiam denials from the appellate
court suggest that an adequate remedy by appeal is not available. The
Supreme Court's intervention is necessary to address these procedural
irregularities and ensure that justice is served.
In re Ligon, 408 S.W.3d 888 (Tex. App. 2013)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
The Court of Criminal Appeals has explained that, to be entitled to a writ of
mandamus from an appellate court, 'the State must demonstrate that: (1)
there is no other adequate legal remedy, and (2) there is a clear and
indisputable right to the relief sought.' State v. Patrick, 86 S.W.3d 592, 594
(Tex.Crim.App.2002). When a trial court's ruling is a rational one supported
by the law, and so does not represent a clear abuse of discretion, a writ of
mandamus will not issue to compel a different ruling. See State ex rel.
Rosenthal v. Poe, 98 S.W.3d 194, 198 n. 3 (Tex.Crim.App.2003).
Summary
Criteria for obtaining a writ of mandamus, emphasizing that the petitioner
must show no adequate legal remedy exists and that there is a clear and
indisputable right to the relief sought. This is relevant to the question
because it provides a legal framework for arguing that the Supreme Court
must act in the current case due to the lack of an adequate remedy and the
clear right to relief.
Monroe v. Blackmon, 946 S.W.2d 533 (Tex. App. 1997)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
The more fundamental is disqualification, for if a judge is disqualified from
sitting in a case he is without jurisdiction to rule. Any order or judgment by

=== PAGE 100 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
a disqualified judge is void, without effect, and subject to collateral attack.
See Buckholts Indep. Sch. Dist. v. Glaser, 632 S.W.2d 146, 148 (Tex.1982).
The Texas Constitution provides in Article V, Section 11: 'No judge shall sit
in any case wherein he may be interested, or where either of the parties may
be connected with him, either by affinity or consanguinity, within such a
degree as may be prescribed by law, or when he shall have been counsel in
the case.' TEX. CONST. art. V, § 11.
Summary
If a judge is disqualified, they lack jurisdiction to rule on a case, rendering
any orders or judgments void. This principle is rooted in the Texas
Constitution, which prohibits judges from sitting in cases where they have a
personal interest or connection. This is relevant to the question because it
highlights the potential for judicial disqualification to render proceedings
void, which could be a factor in the alleged conduct in the mandamus
petitions.
In re P.W., 579 S.W.3d 713 (Tex. App. 2019)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
The Texas Legislature has mandated that '[a]n appeal in a suit in which
termination of the parent-child relationship is ordered shall be given
precedence over other civil cases by the appellate courts, shall be
accelerated, and shall follow the procedures for an accelerated appeal under
the Texas Rules of Appellate Procedure.' Tex. Fam. Code Ann. § 109.002(a–1)
(West, Westlaw through 2017 1st C.S.). Appellate courts are to dispose of
these appeals 'with the least possible delay.' Tex. Fam. Code Ann. § 263.405
(West, Westlaw through 2017 1st C.S.). In most situations, remedies other
than a direct appeal from the final termination order will not be available for
a party complaining that the trial evidence is insufficient to support the trial
court's (D) or (E) findings.
Summary
The passage highlights the legislative mandate for expedited handling of
appeals in cases involving the termination of parental rights. It underscores
the importance of timely appellate review and the limited availability of
other remedies, emphasizing the need for swift judicial action to protect
fundamental rights. This context is relevant to the question as it underscores
the urgency and necessity for the Supreme Court to act in cases where
procedural irregularities and delays threaten the finalization of a case,
especially when fundamental parental rights are at stake.
In re Walker, 265 S.W.3d 545 (Tex. App. 2008)

=== PAGE 101 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
In concluding that the accelerated appeal provided the parents in the case
before it with an adequate remedy, the supreme court noted that the parents
had filed their motions to dismiss during the trial and that physical
possession of the children had already passed to TDFPS. Id. However, the
court cautioned that it was not holding that a party 'could never be entitled
to mandamus relief' for a trial court's failure to dismiss under section
263.401, and it specifically noted that an impending transfer of physical
possession of children or an unreasonable delay in entering a final decree
might support mandamus relief. Id. Nevertheless, on the facts before it, the
court emphasized that the parents could have initiated the accelerated
appeal 'at worst two days after they filed their petitions for writ of
mandamus' and, thus, they had an adequate appellate remedy. Id. at 614.
Summary
The court acknowledges that mandamus relief might be appropriate in cases
where there is an unreasonable delay in entering a final decree or an
impending transfer of physical possession of children. This suggests that in
situations where the normal appellate process is inadequate to address
urgent issues, such as the welfare of children, mandamus relief can be
considered.
In re Gold, 04-25-00085-CV (Tex. App. May 07, 2025)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 18a(f)(1) provides: 'Regardless of whether the
motion [to recuse] complies with this rule, the respondent judge, within
three business days after the motion is filed, must either: (A) sign and file
with the clerk an order of recusal or disqualification; or (B) sign and file with
the clerk an order referring the motion to the regional presiding judge.' ...
The failure to take one of these two actions renders subsequent orders
void. ... Additionally, '[i]f a motion is filed before evidence has been offered
at trial, the respondent judge must take no further action in the case until
the motion has been decided, except for good cause stated in writing or on
the record.' ... We conclude that because the respondent signed the
temporary orders after relator filed a motion to recuse and the record does
not support a good cause exception as contemplated by rule 18a, the
temporary orders are void and of no effect.

=== PAGE 102 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
When a motion to recuse is filed, the judge must either recuse themselves or
refer the motion to the regional presiding judge within three business days.
If the judge fails to do so and takes further action in the case, such as
signing orders, those actions are void. This rule is designed to ensure
impartiality and due process. The failure to comply with this rule can render
subsequent judicial actions void, which is a significant procedural error.
In re Minschke, NUMBER 13-20-00508-CV (Tex. App. May 07, 2021)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
Mandamus is both an extraordinary remedy and a discretionary one. In re
Garza, 544 S.W.3d 836, 840 (Tex. 2018) (orig. proceeding) (per curiam). For
mandamus to issue, the relator must show that the trial court abused its
discretion and that no adequate appellate remedy exists to cure the error. In
re N. Cypress Med. Ctr. Operating Co., 559 S.W.3d 128, 130 (Tex. 2018)
(orig. proceeding); In re Christus Santa Rosa Health Sys., 492 S.W.3d 276,
279 (Tex. 2016) (orig. proceeding). The relator bears the burden of proving
both requirements.
Summary
Foundational understanding of the requirements for mandamus relief, which
is relevant to arguing why the Supreme Court must act in the current case.
In re Caballero, 594 S.W.3d 843 (Tex. App. 2020)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
To be entitled to mandamus relief, a relator generally must meet two
requirements. First, the relator must show that the trial court clearly abused
its discretion. In re Prudential Ins. Co. of Am., 148 S.W.3d 124, 135 (Tex.
2004). Second, the relator must demonstrate that there is no adequate
remedy by appeal. Id. at 136. The burden is on the relator to show she is
entitled to mandamus relief. See In re Ford Motor Company, 165 S.W.3d 315,
317 (Tex. 2005) (orig. proceeding). Although a writ of mandamus is
generally unavailable to review venue decisions, an exception to this rule
arises when the trial court has a ministerial duty to transfer a cause under a
mandatory venue statute but fails to do so.

=== PAGE 103 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
For mandamus relief to be granted, the relator must demonstrate a clear
abuse of discretion by the trial court and the absence of an adequate remedy
by appeal. The passage also highlights that while mandamus is typically not
available for venue decisions, exceptions exist when a trial court fails to
perform a ministerial duty under a mandatory statute. This is relevant to the
question as it provides a framework for arguing that the Supreme Court
must act due to the trial court's failure to perform its duties, which may be
unprecedented in the context of the mandamus petitions filed by Charles
Dustin Myers.
In re Ortegon, 616 S.W.3d 48 (Tex. App. 2020)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy that will issue only to correct a clear
abuse of discretion when there is no other adequate remedy at law. In re Sw.
Bell Tel. Co., L.P., 235 S.W.3d 619, 623 (Tex. 2007) (orig. proceeding). A trial
court has no discretion in determining what the law is or applying the law to
the facts. Walker v. Packer, 827 S.W.2d 833, 840 (Tex. 1992) (orig.
proceeding). Thus, a clear failure by the trial court to analyze or apply the
law correctly will constitute an abuse of discretion, and may result in
appellate reversal by extraordinary writ. Id.
Summary
The passage explains that mandamus is an extraordinary remedy used to
correct a trial court's clear abuse of discretion when no other adequate
remedy exists. This is relevant to the current situation because the trial
court's actions, as alleged in the mandamus petitions, may constitute such
an abuse of discretion. The passage highlights the importance of mandamus
in ensuring that trial courts correctly apply the law, which is crucial in cases
involving fundamental rights, such as parental rights.
In re Northrop, 305 SW 3d 172 (Tex. App. 2009)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, available only when a trial court
clearly abuses its discretion and there is no adequate remedy by appeal. In
re Dep't of Fam. & Prot. Servs., 273 S.W.3d 637, 643 (Tex.2009); In re
Prudential Ins. Co. of Am., 148 S.W.3d 124, 135-36 (Tex. 2004). A trial court
commits a clear abuse of discretion when its action is 'so arbitrary and

=== PAGE 104 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
unreasonable as to amount to a clear and prejudicial error of law.' In re CSX
Corp., 124 S.W.3d 149, 151 (Tex.2003) (quoting CSR Ltd. v. Link, 925 S.W.2d
591, 596 (Tex.1996)).
Summary
Standard for determining when a trial court's action constitutes a clear
abuse of discretion, which is when the action is arbitrary and unreasonable,
amounting to a clear and prejudicial error of law.
Lovelace v. Downey, 783 S.W.2d 824 (Tex. App. 1990)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
Applications for a mandamus to a subordinate court are warranted by the
principles and usages of law in cases where the subordinate court, having
jurisdiction of a case, refuses to hear and decide the controversy, or where
such a court, having heard the cause, refuses to render judgment or enter a
decree in the case, but the principles and usages of law do not warrant the
use of the writ to reexamine a judgment or decree of a subordinate court in
any case, nor will the writ be issued to direct what judgment or decree such
a court shall render in any pending case, nor will the writ be issued in any
case if the party aggrieved may have a remedy by writ of error or appeal, as
the only office of the writ when issued to a subordinate court is to direct the
performance of a ministerial act or to command the court to act in a case
where the court has jurisdiction and refuses to act, but the supervisory court
will never prescribe what the decision of the subordinate court.
Summary
A writ of mandamus is appropriate when a subordinate court refuses to hear
or decide a case or perform a ministerial act. However, it is not used to
reexamine a judgment or direct what judgment should be rendered if there
is an adequate remedy by appeal. The passage highlights the limitations of
mandamus, emphasizing that it is not a tool for reexamining judgments but
for compelling action when a court refuses to act.
In re Ponce, 08-25-00102-CV (Tex. App. Jun 27, 2025)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
Mandamus relief is an extraordinary remedy that requires the relator to
demonstrate that the trial court committed a clear abuse of discretion and
that she has no adequate remedy by appeal. See In re Kappmeyer, 668 S.W.

=== PAGE 105 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
3d 651, 654 (Tex. 2023) (orig. proceeding) (citing In re Prudential Ins. Co. of
Am., 148 S.W.3d 124, 135-36 (Tex. 2004)); see also Walker v. Packer, 827
S.W.2d 833, 837 (Tex. 1992) (orig. proceeding) (holding that relator bears
the burden to properly request and show entitlement to mandamus relief).
Summary
Mandamus relief is considered an extraordinary remedy in Texas law. It is
only granted when there is a clear abuse of discretion by the trial court and
when there is no adequate remedy by appeal. This standard is applicable to
any case where a party seeks mandamus relief, emphasizing the need for the
relator to demonstrate both the trial court's error and the inadequacy of
other remedies.
In re T.M.R., 13-21-00144-CV (Tex. App. Oct 28, 2021)
Texas Court of Appeals
Extract
Due to the serious nature of parental termination proceedings and the
important role of amicus and ad litem attorneys in assisting the trial court in
making a best interest determination in contested termination suits, a trial
court's failure to appoint such an attorney when required to do so 'is error
that cannot be treated as harmless.' In re K.M.M., 326 S.W.3d at 716; see
TEX. FAM. CODE ANN. § 107.021(a-1).
Summary
In parental termination proceedings, the appointment of an amicus or ad
litem attorney is crucial to ensure the child's best interests are adequately
represented. The failure to appoint such an attorney when required by law is
considered a significant error that cannot be overlooked or deemed
harmless. This underscores the importance of adhering to procedural
requirements to protect the rights and interests of all parties involved,
particularly the child.
In re McAllen Medical Center, Inc., 275 S.W.3d 458 (Tex. 2008)
Texas Supreme Court
Extract
Mandamus is an extraordinary writ that should issue 'only in situations
involving manifest and urgent necessity and not for grievances that may be
addressed by other remedies.' Walker, 827 S.W.2d at 840... We have
recognized, however, that harm to the judicial system, affecting our
constitutional obligation to oversee the administration of justice and the

=== PAGE 106 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
rights of all Texans to a fair and efficient judicial system, is a basis for acting
by mandamus. On that basis, we held, for example, that appeal is an
inadequate remedy when one Texas court issues an order that directly
interferes with another Texas court's jurisdiction. In re SWEPI, L.P., 85 S.W.
3d 800, 809 (Tex.2002); Perry v. Del Rio, 66 S.W.3d 239, 258 (Tex.2001).
Summary
Mandamus relief is appropriate in situations where there is a manifest and
urgent necessity, particularly when there is harm to the judicial system or
interference with court jurisdiction. This suggests that the Supreme Court
must act in cases where the conduct of opposing counsel or the actions of
the court threaten the integrity of the judicial process or the rights of the
parties involved.
In re Dept. of Family & Protective Services, 273 S.W.3d 637 (Tex. 2009)
Texas Supreme Court
Extract
Whether a clear abuse of discretion can be adequately remedied by appeal
depends on a careful analysis of the costs and benefits of interlocutory
review. In cases involving child custody, 'Justice demands a speedy
resolution,' and we have acknowledged that appeal is 'frequently inadequate
to protect the rights of parents and children.' ... The legal problem here is
not one K.W. created, and she should not forfeit protections designed to
assure prompt processing of both children and parents through the system
because she sought to protect her rights via a procedural vehicle provided
for by rule and by statute.
Summary
In cases involving child custody, the Texas Supreme Court recognizes that
justice demands a speedy resolution and that appeals are often inadequate
to protect the rights of parents and children. The passage emphasizes the
importance of prompt processing of cases to protect the rights of both
children and parents, especially when the legal problem is not created by
the party seeking relief. This principle is relevant to the current situation
where the case cannot be finalized due to the conduct of the opposing
counsel and the alleged procedural issues in each mandamus.
State v. Naylor (In re State), 466 S.W.3d 783 (Tex. 2015)
Texas Supreme Court

=== PAGE 107 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
The State also seeks mandamus relief from the trial court's adjudication of
the divorce petition. A writ of mandamus is an extraordinary remedy
available 'to correct an action of a trial judge who commits an abuse of
discretion or a violation of a clear duty under the law.' State v. Walker, 679
S.W.2d 484, 485 (Tex.1984) (citing State Bar v. Heard, 603 S.W.2d 829, 834
(Tex.1980) ).
Summary
A writ of mandamus is an extraordinary remedy used to correct a trial
judge's abuse of discretion or violation of a clear duty under the law. This is
relevant to the current situation because the mandamus petitions filed by
Charles Dustin Myers allege procedural irregularities and judicial inaction
that may constitute an abuse of discretion. The passage highlights the
importance of mandamus as a tool to address such issues, which supports
the argument that the Supreme Court must act to ensure due process and
correct any judicial errors.
Tex. Civ. Prac. and Rem. Code § 30.016 Tex. Civ. Prac. and Rem. Code §
30.016 Recusal Or Disqualification of Certain Judges
Extract
A judge who declines recusal after a tertiary recusal motion is filed shall
comply with applicable rules of procedure for recusal and disqualification
except that the judge shall continue to: preside over the case; sign orders in
the case; and move the case to final disposition as though a tertiary recusal
motion had not been filed.
Summary
When a tertiary recusal motion is filed, the judge is required to continue
presiding over the case and move it to final disposition as if the motion had
not been filed. This means that the filing of multiple recusal motions does
not automatically halt proceedings, and the judge is expected to continue
managing the case. This provision ensures that cases are not unduly delayed
by repeated recusal motions.
Tex. Gov't. Code § 25.00256 Tex. Gov't. Code § 25.00256 Tertiary Recusal
Motion Against Judge
Extract
A judge who declines recusal after a tertiary recusal motion is filed shall
comply with applicable rules of procedure for recusal and disqualification

=== PAGE 108 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
except that the judge shall continue to: preside over the case; sign orders in
the case; and move the case to final disposition as though a tertiary recusal
motion had not been filed.
Summary
Procedure for handling tertiary recusal motions, emphasizing that a judge
must continue to preside over the case and move it to final disposition as if
the motion had not been filed. This suggests that even in cases of multiple
recusal motions, the judicial process should not be stalled. This is relevant to
the question as it highlights the expectation for cases to proceed despite
procedural challenges, which may be pertinent to the argument that the
Supreme Court must act to ensure the case is finalized.
Tex. Fam. Code § 105.001 Tex. Fam. Code § 105.001 Temporary Orders
Before Final Order
Extract
In a suit, the court may make a temporary order, including the modification
of a prior temporary order, for the safety and welfare of the child, including
an order: for the temporary conservatorship of the child; for the temporary
support of the child; restraining a party from disturbing the peace of the
child or another party; prohibiting a person from removing the child beyond
a geographical area identified by the court; or for payment of reasonable
attorney's fees and expenses.
Summary
Texas Family Code § 105.001 provides courts with the authority to issue
temporary orders to protect the safety and welfare of children involved in
legal proceedings. This includes orders for temporary conservatorship,
support, and restrictions on removing the child from a specified area. The
passage highlights the court's ability to act swiftly in the child's best
interest, which is relevant to the question of why the Supreme Court must
act in this case. The passage underscores the importance of judicial
intervention to ensure the child's welfare, which aligns with the need for the
Supreme Court to address the alleged conduct and finalize the case.
Tex. Fam. Code § 6.407 Tex. Fam. Code § 6.407 Transfer of Suit Affecting
Parent-Child Relationship to Divorce Court
Extract
If a suit affecting the parent-child relationship is pending at the time the suit
for dissolution of a marriage is filed, the suit affecting the parent-child
relationship shall be transferred as provided by Section FAMILY CODE
103.002 to the court in which the suit for dissolution is filed.

=== PAGE 109 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The transfer is mandatory and should be done as provided by Section
FAMILY CODE 103.002. This procedural requirement is crucial in ensuring
that the cases are handled efficiently and in accordance with the law.
Tex. Fam. Code § 153.002 Tex. Fam. Code § 153.002 Best Interest of Child
Extract
The best interest of the child shall always be the primary consideration of
the court in determining the issues of conservatorship and possession of and
access to the child.
Summary
The Texas Family Code mandates that the best interest of the child is the
paramount consideration in legal decisions regarding conservatorship and
access. This principle is universally applicable in Texas family law cases and
serves as a guiding standard for courts. In the context of the mandamus
proceedings, this principle underscores the importance of ensuring that
judicial actions and decisions prioritize the welfare and best interests of the
children involved. The alleged conduct and procedural irregularities in the
mandamus cases may have implications for the children's best interests,
thereby necessitating careful judicial scrutiny and potential intervention by
the Supreme Court.
Tex. Gov't. Code § 22.002 Tex. Gov't. Code § 22.002 Writ Power
Extract
The supreme court or a justice of the supreme court may issue writs of
procedendo and certiorari and all writs of quo warranto and mandamus
agreeable to the principles of law regulating those writs, against a statutory
county court judge, a statutory probate court judge, a district judge, a court
of appeals or a justice of a court of appeals, or any officer of state
government except the governor, the court of criminal appeals, or a judge of
the court of criminal appeals.
Summary
The Supreme Court's writ power does not extend to the governor, the court
of criminal appeals, or judges of the court of criminal appeals.
Tex. Const. art. 5 § 31 Tex. Const. art. 5 § 31 Court Administration; Rule-
Making Authority; Action On Motion For Rehearing

=== PAGE 110 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
The Supreme Court is responsible for the efficient administration of the
judicial branch and shall promulgate rules of administration not inconsistent
with the laws of the state as may be necessary for the efficient and uniform
administration of justice in the various courts.
Summary
The Texas Supreme Court has a constitutional responsibility to ensure the
efficient and uniform administration of justice across the state's courts. This
includes promulgating rules of administration and civil procedure that are
consistent with state laws. The passage highlights the Supreme Court's
overarching role in maintaining the integrity and efficiency of the judicial
system.
Tex. Fam. Code § 109.002 Tex. Fam. Code § 109.002 Appellate Review
Extract
An appeal from a final order rendered in a suit, when allowed under this
section or under other provisions of law, shall be as in civil cases generally
under the Texas Rules of Appellate Procedure... An appeal in a suit in which
termination of the parent-child relationship is ordered shall be given
precedence over other civil cases by the appellate courts, shall be
accelerated, and shall follow the procedures for an accelerated appeal under
the Texas Rules of Appellate Procedure.
Summary
Appeals in family law cases, especially those involving the termination of the
parent-child relationship, are given precedence and are subject to
accelerated procedures. This indicates the importance and urgency the law
places on resolving such matters promptly. The passage highlights the
procedural framework for appeals in family law cases, emphasizing the need
for expedited handling in cases involving parental rights.
Tex. Fam. Code § 201.104 Tex. Fam. Code § 201.104 Powers of Associate
Judge
Extract
An associate judge may render and sign any order that is not a final order on
the merits of the case. Only the referring court may hear and render an
order on a motion for postjudgment relief, including a motion for a new trial
or to vacate, correct, or reform a judgment.

=== PAGE 111 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
An associate judge can issue orders that are not final on the merits of the
case, and only the referring court has the authority to handle postjudgment
relief motions. This indicates a clear separation of powers between associate
judges and the referring court, ensuring that final decisions and significant
postjudgment actions are reserved for the referring court. This separation is
crucial in maintaining the integrity of the judicial process and ensuring that
parties have access to appropriate judicial review.
Tex. Fam. Code § 109.001 Tex. Fam. Code § 109.001 Temporary Orders
During Pendency of Appeal
Extract
In a suit affecting the parent-child relationship, on the motion of any party
or on the court's own motion and after notice and hearing, the court may
make any order necessary to preserve and protect the safety and welfare of
the child during the pendency of an appeal as the court may deem necessary
and equitable. In addition to other matters, an order may: appoint
temporary conservators for the child and provide for possession of the child;
require the temporary support of the child by a party; enjoin a party from
molesting or disturbing the peace of the child or another party; prohibit a
person from removing the child beyond a geographical area identified by the
court; require payment of reasonable and necessary attorney's fees and
expenses; or suspend the operation of the order or judgment that is being
appealed.
Summary
The court has the authority to issue temporary orders to protect the safety
and welfare of the child during the pendency of an appeal. This includes
appointing temporary conservators, providing for possession, and enjoining
parties from disturbing the peace of the child. The court can also suspend
the operation of the order or judgment being appealed. This indicates that
the court has broad discretion to ensure the child's welfare is protected
during legal proceedings.
Tex. Fam. Code § 263.401 Tex. Fam. Code § 263.401 Dismissal After One
Year; New Trials; Extension
Extract
Unless the court has commenced the trial on the merits or granted an
extension under Subsection (b) or (b-1), on the first Monday after the first
anniversary of the date the court rendered a temporary order appointing the
department as temporary managing conservator, the court's jurisdiction
over the suit affecting the parent-child relationship filed by the department

=== PAGE 112 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
that requests termination of the parent-child relationship or requests that
the department be named conservator of the child is terminated and the suit
is automatically dismissed without a court order.
Summary
The court's jurisdiction over a suit affecting the parent-child relationship is
automatically terminated if the trial on the merits has not commenced
within a year, unless an extension is granted. This provision ensures that
cases do not languish indefinitely without resolution. The passage highlights
the importance of timely judicial action and the potential for automatic
dismissal if the court fails to act within the prescribed timeframe.
Tex. Civ. Prac. and Rem. Code § 51.014 Tex. Civ. Prac. and Rem. Code §
51.014 Appeal From Interlocutory Order
Extract
A person may appeal from an interlocutory order of a district court, county
court at law, statutory probate court, or county court that: ... (4) grants or
refuses a temporary injunction or grants or overrules a motion to dissolve a
temporary injunction as provided by Chapter 65; ... (b) An interlocutory
appeal under Subsection (a), other than an appeal under Subsection (a) or in
a suit brought under the Family Code, stays the commencement of a trial in
the trial court pending resolution of the appeal. ... (d) On a party's motion or
on its own initiative, a trial court in a civil action may, by written order,
permit an appeal from an order that is not otherwise appealable if: (1) the
order to be appealed involves a controlling question of law as to which there
is a substantial ground for difference of opinion; and (2) an immediate
appeal from the order may materially advance the ultimate termination of
the litigation. ... (h) The supreme court may review a decision by a court of
appeals not to accept an appeal under Subsection (f) de novo. If the supreme
court concludes that the requirements to permit an appeal under Subsection
(d) are satisfied, the court may direct the court of appeals to accept the
appeal.
Summary
Interlocutory appeals can be made from certain orders, including those
granting or refusing temporary injunctions. Such appeals can stay trial
proceedings, and the Supreme Court has the authority to review decisions
by the court of appeals regarding these appeals. This is relevant to the
question because it highlights the procedural mechanisms available to
challenge interlocutory orders and the role of the Supreme Court in
ensuring that such challenges are properly considered.
Tex. Gov't. Code § 23.101 Tex. Gov't. Code § 23.101 Primary Priorities

=== PAGE 113 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
The trial courts of this state shall regularly and frequently set hearings and
trials of pending matters, giving preference to hearings and trials of the
following: temporary injunctions; criminal actions... orders for the protection
of the family under Subtitle B, Title 4, Family Code...
Summary
Texas trial courts are mandated to prioritize certain types of hearings and
trials, including those related to family law and temporary injunctions. This
suggests that the courts should act promptly on such matters to ensure
justice and protect the rights of the parties involved. The failure to do so, as
alleged in the mandamus petitions, could be seen as a deviation from this
statutory requirement, potentially justifying the need for Supreme Court
intervention.
1 Tex. Admin. Code § 155.152 1 Tex. Admin. Code § 155.152 Disqualification
Or Recusal of Judges
Extract
A judge is subject to recusal or disqualification on the same grounds and
under the same circumstances as specified in TRCP Rule 18b. Motion. A
motion to recuse or disqualify a judge assigned to a case should: (A) be
made at the earliest practicable time; (B) be verified, if the motion is in
writing; (C) state with particularity the grounds for the motion; and (D) be
based on personal knowledge and include such facts as would be admissible
in evidence, except that facts may be stated on information and belief if the
basis for such belief is specifically stated.
Summary
The process for recusal or disqualification of judges in Texas administrative
hearings is governed by specific criteria. These criteria include the timing of
the motion, verification, particularity of grounds, and admissibility of facts.
This aligns with the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 18b, ensuring
consistency across judicial proceedings. The passage highlights the
procedural requirements for recusal or disqualification, which are relevant
to the question of judicial conduct and the need for the Supreme Court to
act if these procedures are not followed.
Pretrial motions
Texas Criminal Lawyer's Handbook. Volume 1-2 (2024) - James
Publishing - Mark G. Daniel, Robert K. Gill

=== PAGE 114 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
When a recusal motion is filed, the trial judge against whom the motion is
directed may properly make an initial decision of whether the motion is
sufficient to invoke Rule 18a. See Arnold (no error in not referring motion to
recuse not timely filed); McDuffie v. State, 854 S.W.2d 195 (Tex.App.—
Beaumont 1993, pet. ref’d). Once a sufficient motion to recuse has been
filed, before proceeding further in the case, the judge must either recuse
himself or request the presiding judge of the administrative judicial district
to assign a judge to hear the motion under Tex. Gov’t Code §74.059(c)(3).
Summary
When a recusal motion is filed, the trial judge has a duty to determine its
sufficiency and, if sufficient, must either recuse themselves or request the
assignment of another judge to hear the motion. This procedural
requirement ensures that the recusal process is handled appropriately and
that any potential bias or conflict of interest is addressed. The failure to
follow these procedures can lead to questions about the fairness and
impartiality of the judicial process.
Misconduct
Trial Objections - James Publishing - R. Rogge Dunn - 2022-05-05
Extract
It is improper to ignore the court’s ruling on an objection and continue to
ask objectionable questions. TEXAS Darnell v. Broberg, 565 S.W.3d 450, 464
(Tex. App. —El Paso 2018). Disobedience of a court order constitutes a clear
abuse of the judicial process, and interferes with the trial court’s core
functions, which includes issuing and enforcing court orders.
Summary
Disobedience of a court order is considered a clear abuse of the judicial
process in Texas. This is relevant to the question as it underscores the
importance of following court orders and rulings, which is a central issue in
the mandamus petitions filed by Charles Dustin Myers. The passage
highlights that ignoring court rulings undermines the court's core functions,
which is pertinent to the argument that the Supreme Court must act to
address the alleged misconduct and procedural irregularities in the case.
Pretrial motions
Texas Criminal Lawyer's Handbook. Volume 1-2 - James Publishing -
Mark G. Daniel, Robert K. Gill - 2022-05-05

=== PAGE 115 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
a. Recusal or Disqualification of Judges... (a) At least 10 days before the date
set for trial or other hearing in any court other than the Supreme Court, the
Court of Criminal Appeals or the Court of Appeals, any party may file with
the clerk of the court a motion stating grounds why the judge before whom
the case is pending should not sit in the case... (c) Prior to any further
proceedings in the case, the judge shall either recuse himself or request the
presiding judge of the administrative judicial district to assign a judge to
hear such motion... (d) If the judge declines to recuse himself, he shall
forward to the presiding judge of the administrative judicial district, in
either original form or certified copy, an order of referral, the motion, and all
opposing and concurring statements... The presiding judge of the
administrative judicial district shall immediately set a hearing before himself
or some other judge designated by him, shall cause notice of such hearing to
be given to all parties or their counsel, and shall make such other orders
including orders on interim or ancillary relief in the pending cause as justice
may require.
Summary
Procedural requirements for filing a motion to recuse or disqualify a judge in
Texas courts. It emphasizes the necessity for a judge to either recuse
themselves or refer the motion to the presiding judge of the administrative
judicial district. The presiding judge is then required to set a hearing and
notify all parties. This process ensures that any concerns about a judge's
impartiality are addressed promptly and fairly, maintaining the integrity of
the judicial process.
Pretrial Motions
Texas Criminal Lawyer's Handbook. Volume 1 - 2021 - James
Publishing - Mark G. Daniel, Robert K. Gill - 2021-08-16
Extract
The motion shall be made on personal knowledge and shall set forth such
facts as would be admissible in evidence provided that facts may be stated
upon information and belief if the grounds of such belief are specifically
stated... If the judge declines to recuse himself, he shall forward to the
presiding judge of the administrative judicial district, in either original form
or certified copy, an order of referral, the motion, and all opposing and
concurring statements. Except for good cause stated in the order in which
further action is taken, the judge shall make no further orders and shall take
no further action in the case after filing of the motion and prior to a hearing
on the motion.

=== PAGE 116 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Procedural requirements for filing a motion to recuse a judge, emphasizing
the need for personal knowledge and admissible evidence. It also details the
process if a judge declines to recuse themselves, including forwarding the
motion to the presiding judge and refraining from further action until a
hearing. This is relevant to the question as it highlights the procedural
safeguards and the importance of judicial impartiality, which may be at issue
in the mandamus cases.
CHAPTER 6 Petitions for Writ of Mandamus
Practitioner's Guide to Civil Appeals in Texas - Full Court Press
Extract
Section 22.002(a) of the Texas Government Code confers jurisdiction on the
Supreme Court to issue writs of mandamus against a statutory county court
judge, a statutory probate court judge, a district judge, a court of appeals or
a justice of a court of appeals, or any officer of state government except the
governor, the court of criminal appeals, or a judge of the court of criminal
appeals. Section 22.002(a) authorizes the Texas Supreme Court to 'review a
court of appeals' issuance of a writ of mandamus to determine if it
constituted a clear abuse of discretion.' When the Texas Supreme Court
reviews a court of appeals' issuance of the writ, 'however, [the Supreme
Court's] 'focus remains on the trial court's order.'
Summary
The Texas Supreme Court has the jurisdiction to issue writs of mandamus
against various judicial officers, including district judges, and to review the
issuance of such writs by the court of appeals. The Supreme Court's focus in
such reviews is on the trial court's order, particularly if there is a clear
abuse of discretion. This is relevant to the question because it highlights the
Supreme Court's authority to intervene in cases where lower courts may
have acted improperly, which is pertinent to the alleged conduct in the
mandamus petitions.
SUPPLEMENTING SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEFING.
Journal of Appellate Practice and Process - University of Arizona -
Schwartz, Ziv - 2022-06-22
Extract
Appellate courts routinely address--on their own motion--prudential
questions, constitutional interpretation, precedential questions, and cases
that involve 'extreme circumstances' or 'manifest injustice.'

=== PAGE 117 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Appellate courts, including the Supreme Court, have the authority to
intervene in cases sua sponte when there are extreme circumstances or
manifest injustice. This suggests that the Supreme Court can act in the
current situation if it determines that the conduct alleged in the mandamus
petitions represents such circumstances. The passage supports the
argument that the Supreme Court's intervention is warranted due to the
unprecedented nature of the case and the potential for manifest injustice.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of July 18, 2025. View full answer on vLex

