FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-The-wife-and-stepfather-engaged-in-multiple-acts--including-defrauding-the-husband-of-his-home--empt-6a4a8b2c-1.pdf
PAGES: 35
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
The wife and stepfather engaged in multiple acts, including defrauding the
husband of his home, emptying the joint bank account via PayPal, and
transferring funds to conceal financial information. The wife crossed state
lines to prepare divorce paperwork containing knowingly false statements
designed to remove the husband from his home. Under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c),
a civil RICO claim requires a "pattern of racketeering activity," which
consists of at least two predicate acts of racketeering within a 10-year
period. Predicate acts under RICO include crimes such as wire fraud (18
U.S.C. § 1343), mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341), and interstate transportation of
stolen property (18 U.S.C. § 2314). If the wife's use of PayPal to empty the
joint bank account and transfer funds involved wire communications in
furtherance of a fraudulent scheme, this could constitute wire fraud, a
predicate act under RICO. If the wife crossed state lines with the intent to
further the fraudulent scheme (e.g., by preparing false divorce paperwork),
this could constitute interstate transportation of stolen property or another
predicate act under RICO. The described conduct involves multiple
predicate acts that could form a "pattern of racketeering activity" under
RICO.
Answer (U.S. Federal)
Short response
The described conduct involving wire fraud through the use of PayPal and
interstate transportation for fraudulent purposes could satisfy the predicate
acts requirement needed to establish a pattern of racketeering activity
under civil RICO. If these acts were related and demonstrated continuity,
they would likely provide the basis for a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. §
1962(c).
Summary
The alleged actions of the wife and stepfather—defrauding the husband of
his home, emptying a joint bank account via PayPal, transferring funds to
conceal financial information, and crossing state lines to prepare fraudulent
divorce paperwork—could potentially establish the predicate acts necessary
for a civil RICO claim. Under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), a civil RICO claim requires
a "pattern of racketeering activity," which consists of at least two predicate
acts of racketeering within a 10-year period. The wife's use of PayPal to
empty the joint bank account likely constitutes wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. §
1343, while her crossing of state lines to prepare fraudulent divorce
paperwork could constitute interstate transportation of stolen property
under 18 U.S.C. § 2314, both of which are predicate acts under 18 U.S.C. §
1961.

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
To successfully establish a civil RICO claim, the husband would need to
demonstrate that these predicate acts are related and show continuity or a
threat of continued criminal activity. The courts have consistently held that
RICO requires more than just two isolated acts; rather, they must form a
pattern that demonstrates a relationship between the acts and either
continued criminal activity or the threat thereof. If the husband can
establish these elements, he may have grounds for a civil RICO claim, which
would entitle him to treble damages, costs, and attorney's fees under 18
U.S.C. § 1964(c).
Background and Relevant Law
Statutory Framework
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) provides
both criminal penalties and civil remedies for certain prohibited activities.
Under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), it is unlawful for any person "through a pattern of
racketeering activity or through collection of an unlawful debt to acquire or
maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest in or control of any enterprise
which is engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce." 18 U.S.C. § 1962 (2025) ("It shall be unlawful for any person
through a pattern of racketeering activity or through collection of an
unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest in or
control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce.")
Section 1961 defines "racketeering activity" to include specific enumerated
offenses, including wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343 and interstate
transportation of stolen property under 18 U.S.C. § 2314. 18 U.S.C. § 1961
(2025) ("As used in this chapter- 'racketeering activity' means... (B) any act
which is indictable under any of the following provisions of title 18, United
States Code:... section 1341 (relating to mail fraud), section 1343 (relating
to wire fraud),... sections 2314 and 2315 (relating to interstate
transportation of stolen property)...")
A "pattern of racketeering activity" requires "at least two acts of
racketeering activity, one of which occurred after the effective date of this
chapter and the last of which occurred within ten years (excluding any
period of imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act of racketeering
activity." 18 U.S.C. § 1961 (2025) ("'pattern of racketeering activity' requires
at least two acts of racketeering activity, one of which occurred after the
effective date of this chapter and the last of which occurred within ten years
(excluding any period of imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act
of racketeering activity.")
Wire fraud, one of the potential predicate acts in this case, is defined under 
18 U.S.C. § 1343 as follows: 18 U.S.C. § 1343 (2025) ("Whoever, having
devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for
obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be transmitted by
means of wire, radio, or television communication in interstate or foreign

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or sounds for the purpose
of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be fined under this title or
imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.")
Interstate transportation of stolen property, another potential predicate act,
is defined under 18 U.S.C. § 2314: 18 U.S.C. § 2314 (2025) ("Whoever
transports, transmits, or transfers in interstate or foreign commerce any
goods, wares, merchandise, securities or money, of the value of $5,000 or
more, knowing the same to have been stolen, converted or taken by fraud;
or Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, transports or causes to be
transported, or induces any person or persons to travel in, or to be
transported in interstate or foreign commerce in the execution or
concealment of a scheme or artifice to defraud that person or those persons
of money or property having a value of $5,000 or more;")
The civil remedies available under RICO are outlined in 18 U.S.C. § 1964,
which provides: 18 U.S.C. § 1964 (2025) ("Any person injured in his business
or property by reason of a violation of section 1962 of this chapter may sue
therefor in any appropriate United States district court and shall recover
threefold the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including a
reasonable attorney's fee...")
Judicial Interpretation of RICO Requirements
Elements of a Civil RICO Claim
Courts have consistently identified four elements required to establish a
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c): "(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through
a pattern (4) of racketeering activity." Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex Co., 473 U.S.
479, 496 (1985), as cited in Fedorova v. Foley (W.D. Mich. 2023) ("Under 18
U.S.C. § 1962(c), it is 'unlawful for any person employed by or associated
with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or
foreign commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the
conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering
activity or collection of unlawful debt.' Put differently, a violation of this
statute requires: '(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of
racketeering activity.'")
This four-part test has been consistently applied across various circuits. For
example, the Sixth Circuit reiterated these elements in Ouwinga v. Benistar
419 Plan Servs., Inc., 694 F.3d 783, 791 (6th Cir. 2012) ("To state a RICO
claim, a plaintiff must plead the following elements: '(1) conduct (2) of an
enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity.'")
Similarly, the Third Circuit has adopted this framework, as noted in Hlista v.
Safeguard Props., LLC, No. 15-1812 (3rd Cir. May 05, 2016) ("A plaintiff
bringing a substantive RICO claim under § 1962(c) must allege '(1) conduct
(2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity.'")

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Pattern of Racketeering Activity
While 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5) defines a "pattern of racketeering activity" as
requiring at least two acts of racketeering activity within a ten-year period,
courts have interpreted this requirement more rigorously. In H.J. Inc. v.
Northwestern Bell Tel. Co., 492 U.S. 229, 237-39 (1989), the Supreme Court
held that "a plaintiff or prosecutor must show both 'relationship' and
'continuity'—that the racketeering predicates are related, and that they
either constitute or threaten long-term criminal activity."
This interpretation has been consistently followed by lower courts. For
instance, in Heinrich v. Waiting Angels Adoption Servs., Inc., 668 F.3d 393,
404 (6th Cir. 2012), the court explained: "While the statute defines the
minimum number of acts necessary to establish a pattern of racketeering
activity, the Supreme Court has held that the minimum two acts are not
necessarily sufficient. In order to show a 'pattern' of racketeering activity, a
plaintiff must show 'that the racketeering predicates are related, and that
they amount to or pose a threat of continued criminal activity.'"
The Sixth Circuit further clarified in Grubbs v. Sheakley Grp., Inc., 807 F.3d
785 (6th Cir. 2015) that "'Racketeering activity' encompasses many criminal
acts, including those indictable for mail or wire fraud. See 18 U.S.C. §
1961(1). Finally, the statute requires at least two acts of racketeering
activity within ten years to qualify as a 'pattern of racketeering activity.' 18
U.S.C. § 1961(5)."
Predicate Acts: Wire Fraud and Interstate Transportation
Wire fraud is one of the most common predicate acts for RICO claims.
According to RICO: A Primer (2022), "Mail and wire fraud are the most
common predicate acts." The elements of wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343
require: (1) a scheme to defraud, (2) intent to defraud, (3) use of wire
communications in interstate commerce, and (4) use of these
communications in furtherance of the scheme.
As explained in Wisdom v. First Midwest Bank of Poplar Bluff, 167 F.3d 402
(8th Cir. 1999), wire fraud as a RICO predicate act requires "a showing of:
(1) a plan or scheme to defraud, (2) intent to defraud, (3) reasonable
foreseeability that the mail or wires will be used, and (4) actual use of the
mail or wires to further the scheme."
Interstate transportation of stolen property under 18 U.S.C. § 2314 is also
recognized as a predicate act under RICO. This is evident in U.S. v. Hewes,
729 F.2d 1302 (11th Cir. 1984), which discussed charges including "RICO
conspiracy, 18 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1962(d), violation of the RICO statute's
substantive provisions, 18 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1962(c), numerous counts of mail
and wire fraud, 18 U.S.C.A. Secs. 1341 and 1343, and interstate
transportation of stolen property, 18 U.S.C.A. Sec. 2314."

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Civil RICO Remedies
RICO provides significant civil remedies for those harmed by racketeering
activity. As noted in Bridge v. Phoenix Bond & Indem. Co., 553 U.S. 639
(2008), "The upshot is that RICO provides a private right of action for treble
damages to any person injured in his business or property by reason of the
conduct of a qualifying enterprise's affairs through a pattern of acts
indictable as mail fraud."
Similarly, Tabas v. Tabas, 47 F.3d 1280 (3rd Cir. 1995) explained, "The RICO
statute provides for civil damages for 'any person injured in his business or
property by reason of a violation of [18 U.S.C. Sec. 1962].' 18 U.S.C. Sec.
1964(c)." It should be noted that Tabas was declined to extend by Yucaipa
Am. All. Fund I, LP v. Ehrlich, No. 16-3664 (3rd Cir. Nov 15, 2017), though
this subsequent treatment did not affect the court's basic description of
RICO's civil remedy provisions.
Analysis
Application of RICO to the Described Conduct
Based on the statutes and case law reviewed, the alleged actions of the wife
and stepfather could potentially support a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. §
1962(c). To establish such a claim, the husband would need to demonstrate:
(1) conduct, (2) of an enterprise, (3) through a pattern, (4) of racketeering
activity.
Potential Predicate Acts
The first step in establishing a RICO claim is identifying at least two
predicate acts of racketeering activity as defined by 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1).
Wire Fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343):
The wife's use of PayPal to empty the joint bank account and transfer
funds to conceal financial information likely constitutes wire fraud.
PayPal transactions necessarily involve electronic transmissions in
interstate commerce. To prove wire fraud as a predicate act, the
husband would need to show:
(a) A scheme to defraud or to obtain money by false pretenses,
(b) Intent to defraud,
(c) Use of interstate wire communications, and
(d) Use of wire communications in furtherance of the scheme.
As explained in Wisdom v. First Midwest Bank of Poplar Bluff, 167 F.3d
402 (8th Cir. 1999), wire fraud requires "a showing of: (1) a plan or
scheme to defraud, (2) intent to defraud, (3) reasonable foreseeability
that the mail or wires will be used, and (4) actual use of the mail or
wires to further the scheme."
1. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
The alleged conduct—emptying a joint bank account via PayPal to
conceal funds—suggests a scheme to defraud the husband of his
rightful property. The use of PayPal inherently involves interstate wire
communications, satisfying the jurisdictional element of the statute.
Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property (18 U.S.C. § 2314):
The wife's crossing of state lines to prepare fraudulent divorce
paperwork could constitute interstate transportation of stolen property,
particularly if the value of the property at issue exceeds $5,000, as
required by the statute. 18 U.S.C. § 2314 (2025) covers not only the
physical transportation of stolen goods but also "Whoever, having
devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for
obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises, transports or causes to be transported, or
induces any person or persons to travel in, or to be transported in
interstate or foreign commerce in the execution or concealment of a
scheme or artifice to defraud that person or those persons of money or
property having a value of $5,000 or more."
Given that the alleged scheme involved defrauding the husband of his
home, it is reasonable to assume the value threshold of $5,000 is met.
The wife's interstate travel to prepare fraudulent divorce documents
intended to remove the husband from his home demonstrates both the
interstate element and the connection to the fraudulent scheme.
Pattern Requirement
Having established potential predicate acts, the next step is to determine
whether these acts constitute a "pattern of racketeering activity" as
required by RICO. This requires showing that the predicate acts are both
related and demonstrate continuity.
Relationship Between Acts:
The Supreme Court in H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Tel. Co., 492 U.S.
229, 237-39 (1989) established that predicate acts must be related to
form a pattern. Here, the various acts (emptying the joint bank account
via PayPal, transferring funds to conceal financial information, and
crossing state lines to prepare fraudulent divorce paperwork) appear to
be part of a coordinated scheme to defraud the husband of his property.
This unified purpose suggests a relationship between the acts sufficient
to satisfy this requirement.
As explained in Morrow v. Black, 742 F.Supp. 1199 (E.D. N.Y. 1990),
when "defendants engaged in one scheme after another" or "created
new schemes to prevent the previous schemes from being discovered,"
this can establish the relatedness of the predicate acts.
Continuity:
Continuity refers to either closed-ended continuity (a series of related
acts over a substantial period) or open-ended continuity (past conduct
that threatens future criminal conduct). In Banks v. Wolk, 918 F.2d 418
(3rd Cir. 1990), the court noted that a plaintiff must show that the
2. 
1. 
2. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
racketeering acts "amount to or pose a threat of continued criminal
activity."
The described conduct spans multiple acts over a period:
Defrauding the husband of his home
Emptying the joint bank account via PayPal
Transferring funds to conceal financial information
Crossing state lines to prepare fraudulent divorce paperwork
The systematic nature of these acts, presumably occurring over some
time, could establish closed-ended continuity. Alternatively, if these acts
represent an ongoing pattern of behavior, they might demonstrate
open-ended continuity by showing a threat of continued criminal
activity.
Enterprise Requirement
RICO requires that the pattern of racketeering activity be conducted
through an "enterprise." In this case, the enterprise could be found in the
coordinated activities of the wife and stepfather. As noted in Grubbs v.
Sheakley Grp., Inc., 807 F.3d 785 (6th Cir. 2015), "Both individuals and
corporate entities may be held liable under RICO; a person 'includes any
individual or entity capable of holding a legal or beneficial interest in
property.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(3)."
The joint actions of the wife and stepfather in executing the alleged
fraudulent scheme could be sufficient to establish an "association-in-fact"
enterprise under RICO.
Interstate Commerce Requirement
For RICO to apply, the enterprise must engage in or affect interstate
commerce. Here, the use of PayPal (an interstate wire communication
system) and the crossing of state lines clearly satisfies this jurisdictional
requirement.
Civil Remedies Available
If the husband can successfully establish a civil RICO claim, he would be
entitled to significant remedies under 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c). As stated in 18
U.S.C. § 1964 (2025), "Any person injured in his business or property by
reason of a violation of section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any
appropriate United States district court and shall recover threefold the
damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including a reasonable
attorney's fee..."
This means the husband could potentially recover:
Triple the actual damages suffered
The costs of bringing the suit
Attorney's fees
◦ 
◦ 
◦ 
◦ 
1. 
2. 
3. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
The Supreme Court has confirmed the availability of these remedies for
RICO violations involving fraud. In Bridge v. Phoenix Bond & Indem. Co.,
553 U.S. 639 (2008), the Court explained that "RICO provides a private right
of action for treble damages to any person injured in his business or
property by reason of the conduct of a qualifying enterprise's affairs through
a pattern of acts indictable as mail fraud."
Exceptions and Caveats
Pleading Requirements
While the facts as described could support a civil RICO claim, it's important
to note that courts apply stringent pleading requirements to RICO cases,
particularly when fraud is alleged. As noted in Fedorova v. Foley (W.D. Mich.
2023), "Courts have repeatedly held in RICO cases alleging mail fraud and
wire fraud as the predicate acts, the underlying fraudulent activities must be
pled with particularity' in accordance with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure
9(b)."
This means the husband would need to provide specific details about the
fraudulent scheme, including:
The time, place, and content of the false representations
The identity of the person making the misrepresentation
What was obtained as a result
Value Threshold for Interstate Transportation
Under 18 U.S.C. § 2314, interstate transportation of stolen property requires
that the property have a value of $5,000 or more. If the value of the property
involved in the wife's interstate travel is less than $5,000, this particular
predicate act might not be established. However, given that the scheme
allegedly involved the husband's home, this threshold is likely met.
Proving Intent
To establish wire fraud as a predicate act, the husband would need to prove
that the wife acted with intent to defraud. Wisdom v. First Midwest Bank of
Poplar Bluff, 167 F.3d 402 (8th Cir. 1999) emphasizes that wire fraud
requires "intent to defraud." While the described actions certainly suggest
fraudulent intent, this element must be proven with specific evidence.
Domestic Relations Exception
Although not directly addressed in the provided materials, some courts have
been reluctant to allow RICO claims in what are essentially domestic
disputes. However, the systematic nature of the alleged fraud, involving
multiple predicate acts and substantial property, could distinguish this case
from typical domestic disputes.
• 
• 
• 

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Conclusion
Based on the statutes and case law examined, the described conduct could
potentially establish a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). The wife's
use of PayPal to empty the joint bank account likely constitutes wire fraud
under 18 U.S.C. § 1343, while her crossing of state lines to prepare
fraudulent divorce paperwork could constitute interstate transportation of
stolen property under 18 U.S.C. § 2314, both of which are predicate acts
under RICO.
To successfully establish a RICO violation, the husband would need to
demonstrate that these predicate acts form a pattern of racketeering activity
by showing they are related and demonstrate continuity. The coordinated
nature of the alleged scheme, involving multiple acts aimed at defrauding
the husband of his property, suggests both relatedness and continuity could
be established.
If successful, a civil RICO claim would entitle the husband to significant
remedies, including treble damages, costs, and attorney's fees under 18
U.S.C. § 1964(c). However, the husband would need to overcome the
stringent pleading requirements for RICO cases involving fraud, particularly
the need to plead the fraudulent activities with particularity as required by
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 9(b).
In conclusion, while establishing a civil RICO claim involves several
technical legal requirements, the described conduct involving wire fraud
through the use of PayPal and interstate transportation for fraudulent
purposes appears to satisfy the predicate acts requirement needed to
establish a pattern of racketeering activity under RICO. The systematic
nature of these acts, aimed at defrauding the husband of significant
property, aligns with the type of conduct RICO was designed to address.
Legal Authorities
Wisdom v. First Midwest Bank, of Poplar Bluff, 167 F.3d 402 (8th Cir. 1999)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Eighth Circuit
Extract
Section 1962(c) of the RICO Act makes it 'unlawful for any person employed
by or associated with any enterprise engaged in ... interstate ... commerce,
to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such
enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity.' ... The pattern
element 'requires at least two acts of racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C. §
1961(5); see also H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Tel. Co., 492 U.S. 229,
237-38, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989). ... When pled as RICO
predicate acts, mail and wire fraud require a showing of: (1) a plan or
scheme to defraud, (2) intent to defraud, (3) reasonable foreseeability that
the mail or wires will be used, and (4) actual use of the mail or wires to
further the scheme.

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Elements necessary to establish mail and wire fraud as predicate acts, which
are relevant to the proposition. The proposition involves allegations of wire
fraud through the use of PayPal and potentially other predicate acts, which
align with the requirements discussed in the passage.
U.S. v. Indelicato, 865 F.2d 1370 (2nd Cir. 1989)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Second Circuit
Extract
RICO Sec. 1962(c) makes it unlawful, in pertinent part, for any person
employed by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities
of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate,
directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a
pattern of racketeering activity. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1962(c). Section 1962(d)
makes it unlawful to conspire to violate Secs. 1962(a), (b), or (c). The terms
'enterprise,' 'racketeering activity,' and 'pattern of racketeering activity' are
defined in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1961, in pertinent part, as follows: (1)
'racketeering activity' means (A) any act or threat involving [inter alia ]
murder, kidnaping, gambling, arson, robbery, bribery, extortion, ... which is
chargeable under State law and punishable by imprisonment for more than
one year; (B) any act which is indictable under any of the following
provisions of title 18, United States Code: ... section 1341 (relating to mail
fraud), section 1343 (relating to wire fraud), ... sections 2314 and 2315
(relating to interstate transportation of stolen property), ... (C) any act which
is indictable under title 29, United States Code, section 186 (dealing with
restrictions on payments and loans to labor organizations) or section 501(c)
(relating to embezzlement from union funds...
Summary
The RICO statute requires a "pattern of racketeering activity," which can be
established by at least two predicate acts such as wire fraud and interstate
transportation of stolen property. The passage confirms that these acts are
considered racketeering activities under RICO, supporting the proposition
that the wife's actions could constitute a RICO violation if they involved such
predicate acts.
U.S. v. Hewes, 729 F.2d 1302 (11th Cir. 1984)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Eleventh Circuit

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
The indictment charged the named defendants with conspiring to participate
in the affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity
('RICO conspiracy'), 18 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1962(d), violation of the RICO statute's
substantive provisions, 18 U.S.C.A. Sec. 1962(c), numerous counts of mail
and wire fraud, 18 U.S.C.A. Secs. 1341 and 1343, and interstate
transportation of stolen property, 18 U.S.C.A. Sec. 2314.
Summary
The passage from U.S. v. Hewes discusses a case where defendants were
charged with RICO violations, including mail and wire fraud and interstate
transportation of stolen property. These are the same types of predicate acts
that are relevant to the proposition. The case illustrates how multiple
predicate acts can form a pattern of racketeering activity under RICO, which
is directly applicable to the proposition involving the wife's alleged
fraudulent activities.
U.S. v. Palumbo Bros., Inc., 145 F.3d 850 (7th Cir. 1998)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Seventh Circuit
Extract
Separate violations of other federal and state criminal statutes are the
predicate acts upon which a pattern of racketeering activity is created.
Those predicate acts involve conduct that is otherwise 'chargeable' or
'indictable' and violations that are 'punishable' pursuant to independent
criminal statutes, and RICO specifically identifies mail fraud as a predicate
act for liability. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1). A RICO offense involves the relationship
of those predicate acts in a pattern of criminal activity. Therefore, to
establish a criminal violation of RICO, the government must first establish a
defendant's predicate acts.
Summary
A RICO claim requires establishing a pattern of racketeering activity, which
consists of at least two predicate acts that are chargeable or indictable
under independent criminal statutes. The passage specifically mentions mail
fraud as a predicate act for RICO liability. This supports the proposition that
the wife's actions, if they involved wire fraud or other predicate acts, could
form a pattern of racketeering activity under RICO.
Sedima v. Imrex Company, Inc, 473 U.S. 479, 105 S.Ct. 3275, 87 L.Ed.2d 346
(1985)
U.S. Supreme Court

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), 18 U.S.C.
§§ 1961-1968, which is directed at 'racketeering activity'—defined in §
1961(1) to encompass, inter alia, acts 'indictable' under specific federal
criminal provisions, including mail and wire fraud—provides in § 1964(c) for
a private civil action to recover treble damages by any person injured in his
business or property 'by reason of a violation of section 1962.' Section
1962(c) prohibits conducting or participating in the conduct of an enterprise
'through a pattern of racketeering activity.' ... The single most significant
reason for the expansive use of civil RICO has been the presence in the
statute, as predicate acts, of mail and wire fraud violations. See 18 U.S.C. §
1961(1) (1982 ed., Supp. III). ... Section 1961 defines 'racketeering activity'
to mean any of numerous acts 'chargeable' or 'indictable' under enumerated
state and federal laws, including state-law murder, arson, and bribery
statutes, federal mail and wire fraud statutes, and the antifraud provisions
of federal securities laws. It states that 'a pattern' of racketeering activity
requires proof of at least two acts of racketeering within 10 years.
Summary
The RICO statute allows for civil action when a person is injured in their
business or property due to a violation of section 1962, which includes
conducting an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. The
passage highlights that mail and wire fraud are significant predicate acts
under RICO, which aligns with the proposition that the wife's actions
involving wire communications (e.g., using PayPal) could constitute wire
fraud. Additionally, the requirement of at least two acts of racketeering
within 10 years supports the proposition that the wife's multiple fraudulent
acts could form a pattern of racketeering activity.
Tabas v. Tabas, 47 F.3d 1280 (3rd Cir. 1995)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Third Circuit
Extract
The RICO statute provides for civil damages for 'any person injured in his
business or property by reason of a violation of [18 U.S.C. Sec. 1962].' 18
U.S.C. Sec. 1964(c). A common thread running throughout Sec. 1962 is that
an injured party must demonstrate that the defendant was engaged in a
'pattern of racketeering activity.' Section 1962(c) prohibits any person
employed by or associated with an enterprise engaged in interstate
commerce from conducting or participating in the affairs of the enterprise
through 'a pattern of racketeering activity.' ... Central to the dispute in this
case is the question whether defendants participated in 'a pattern of
racketeering activity.' The RICO statute defines a 'pattern' of racketeering
activity as requiring 'at least two acts of racketeering activity' within a ten
year period. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1961(5).

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The statute does not require a separate "racketeering injury" beyond the
harm from the predicate acts. This supports the proposition by confirming
that the described conduct, if it involves predicate acts like wire fraud or
interstate transportation of stolen property, could form a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO.
Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex Co., Inc., 741 F.2d 482 (2nd Cir. 1984)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Second Circuit
Extract
Two of the RICO counts allege that the fraudulent purchase orders, invoices
and credit memoranda constitute a pattern of racketeering activity, the
predicate acts being separate and numerous violations of the Mail Fraud
Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1341 (1982) and the Wire Fraud Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1343
(1982). ... Section 1964(c) states that anyone 'injured' 'by reason of' a
violation of section 1962 is entitled to treble damages. Section 1962
'violations' include conducting 'enterprises' 'through a pattern of
racketeering'; a 'pattern of racketeering' is defined by section 1961(5) as
two or more 'acts of racketeering' occurring within a given time. 'Acts of
racketeering' are defined by section 1961(1), inter alia, as any of a number
of acts 'chargeable under State law,' acts 'indictable' under a variety of
federal laws, or an 'offense' under the federal securities law.
Summary
The case discusses the requirements for a civil RICO claim, specifically the
need for a "pattern of racketeering activity," which includes at least two
predicate acts such as wire fraud and mail fraud. This directly relates to the
proposition, as the wife's actions could be considered predicate acts under
RICO if they involved wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen
property.
Bridge v. Phoenix Bond & Indem. Co., 128 S.Ct. 2131, 170 L.Ed.2d 1012, 553
U.S. 639, 8 Cal. Daily Op. Serv. 6929, 21 Fla. L. Weekly Fed. S 295, 76 USLW
4381, 2008 Daily Journal D.A.R. 8339 (2008)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
Held: A plaintiff asserting a RICO claim predicated on mail fraud need not
show, either as an element of its claim or as a prerequisite to establishing
proximate causation, that it relied on the defendant's alleged
misrepresentations. ... Using the mail to execute or attempt to execute a

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
scheme to defraud is indictable as mail fraud, and hence a predicate
racketeering act under RICO, even if no one relied on any
misrepresentation... The upshot is that RICO provides a private right of
action for treble damages to any person injured in his business or property
by reason of the conduct of a qualifying enterprise's affairs through a
pattern of acts indictable as mail fraud.
Summary
The use of mail or wire communications to further a fraudulent scheme can
be considered racketeering activity, which aligns with the proposition's
assertion of potential RICO violations.
Inc v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, 492 U.S. 229, 109 S.Ct. 2893,
106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
RICO's legislative history, however, establishes that Congress intended that
to prove a 'pattern of racketeering activity' a plaintiff or prosecutor must
show both 'relationship' and 'continuity'—that the racketeering predicates
are related, and that they either constitute or threaten long-term criminal
activity. ... RICO renders criminally and civilly liable 'any person' who uses
or invests income derived 'from a pattern of racketeering activity' to acquire
an interest in or to operate an enterprise engaged in interstate commerce, §
1962(a); who acquires or maintains an interest in or control of such an
enterprise 'through a pattern of racketeering activity,' § 1962(b); who, being
employed by or associated with such an enterprise, conducts or participates
in the conduct of its affairs 'through a pattern of racketeering activity,' §
1962(c); or, finally, who conspires to violate the first three subsections of §
1962, § 1962(d).
Summary
To establish a RICO claim, there must be a demonstration of both the
relationship and continuity of the predicate acts, which are related and
either constitute or threaten long-term criminal activity. The passage also
clarifies that RICO applies to any person involved in a pattern of
racketeering activity, not limited to organized crime. This supports the
proposition that the wife's actions, if they involve multiple predicate acts
like wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen property, could form a
pattern of racketeering activity under RICO.
Reynolds v. Condon, 908 F.Supp. 1494 (N.D. W.Va. 1996)
U.S. District Court — Northern District of West Virginia

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Thus, to establish a RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c) a plaintiff must
demonstrate '(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of
racketeering activity that must include at least two racketeering acts.' ...
The court concludes that allegations of predicate acts here, stretching from
October of 1990 to November of 1991, and involving numerous related acts
of extortion, as well as what the court will recognize as many acts of witness
tampering and wire fraud, pleaded with the specificity missing from the
allegations of mail fraud, meet these 'pattern' requirements, at least to the
extent necessary to defeat a motion to dismiss for failure to state a claim
pursuant to Fed. R.Civ.P. 12(b)(6).
Summary
Elements required to establish a RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c),
specifically the need for a "pattern of racketeering activity" involving at least
two predicate acts. The court in Reynolds v. Condon recognized wire fraud
as a predicate act that could contribute to a pattern of racketeering activity.
This supports the proposition that the wife's actions, if involving wire fraud
and other predicate acts, could form a pattern of racketeering activity under
RICO.
Fedorova v. Foley
U.S. District Court — Western District of Michigan
Extract
As the Magistrate Judge and this Court have previously explained, Under 18
U.S.C. § 1962(c), it is 'unlawful for any person employed by or associated
with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or
foreign commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the
conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering
activity or collection of unlawful debt.' Put differently, a violation of this
statute requires: '(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of
racketeering activity.' Sedima, S.P.R.I. v. Imrex Co., 473 U.S. 479, 496
(1985). Plaintiff must allege each of these elements to state a claim.
Heinrich v. Waiting Angels Adoption Servs., Inc., 668 F.3d 393, 404 (6th Cir.
2012). 'Courts have repeatedly held in RICO cases alleging mail fraud and
wire fraud as the predicate acts, the underlying fraudulent activities must be
pled with particularity' in accordance with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure
9(b). Paycom Billing Servs., Inc. v. Payment Res. Int'l, 212 F.Supp.2d 732,
736 (W.D. Mich. 2002) (quoting Eby v. Producers Co-op, Inc., 959 F.Supp.
428, 431 (W.D. Mich. 1997) (citing Kenty v. Bank One, Columbus, N.A., 92 F.
3d 384, 389 (6th Cir. 1996)).

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage outlines the requirements for a RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. §
1962(c), emphasizing the need for a "pattern of racketeering activity" and
the necessity to plead fraudulent activities with particularity when alleging
mail and wire fraud as predicate acts. This directly supports the proposition
by confirming that the described conduct, if involving wire fraud and
interstate transportation of stolen property, could form a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO.
Hlista v. Safeguard Props., LLC, No. 15-1812 (3rd Cir. May 05, 2016)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Third Circuit
Extract
A plaintiff bringing a substantive RICO claim under § 1962(c) must allege
'(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity.' In re Ins. Brokerage Antitrust Litig., 618 F.3d 300, 362 (3d Cir.
2010) (internal quotation marks omitted). A pattern of racketeering activity
'requires at least two acts of racketeering activity within a ten-year period.'
Id. (quoting 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5)); see Banks v. Wolk, 918 F.2d 418, 421 (3d
Cir. 1990) ('[N]o defendant can be liable under RICO unless he participated
in two or more predicate offenses sufficient to constitute a pattern.'). These
are known as 'predicate acts' and 'may include, inter alia, federal mail fraud
under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 or federal wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343.' Lum v.
Bank of Am., 361 F.3d 217, 223 (3d Cir. 2004), abrogated in part on other
grounds by Twombly, 550 U.S. at 557; 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1) (defining
'racketeering activity').
Summary
To establish a RICO claim under § 1962(c), a plaintiff must demonstrate a
pattern of racketeering activity, which includes at least two predicate acts
within a ten-year period. The passage specifically mentions that predicate
acts can include federal wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343, which is relevant
to the proposition as it involves the wife's use of PayPal to empty the joint
bank account. The passage supports the proposition by confirming that such
acts could be considered predicate acts under RICO.
Arizona Premium Finance, Inc. v. Bielli, 77 F.Supp.2d 341 (E.D. N.Y. 1999)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
To state a claim for damages under RICO a plaintiff has two pleading
burdens. First, he must allege that the defendant has violated the

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
substantive RICO statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1962 (1976), commonly known as
'criminal RICO.' In so doing, he must allege the existence of seven
constituent elements: (1) that the defendant (2) through the commission of
two or more acts (3) constituting a 'pattern' (4) of 'racketeering activity' (5)
directly or indirectly invests in, or maintains an interest in, or participates in
(6) an 'enterprise' (7) the activities of which affect interstate or foreign
commerce.... To establish such a pattern of racketeering activity, 'a plaintiff
must plead at least two predicate acts, show that the acts are related and
that they amount to, or pose a threat of, continuing criminal activity.' H.J.
Inc. v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Co., 492 U.S. 229, 239, 109 S.Ct. 2893,
106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989). RICO is aimed at 'racketeering activity,' which the
statute defines, in relevant part, as certain acts indictable under Federal
law, including mail and wire fraud, and violations of the Hobbs Act. 18 U.S.C.
§ 1961(1)(B).
Summary
To establish a RICO claim, a plaintiff must allege the commission of at least
two predicate acts that form a pattern of racketeering activity. The passage
specifically mentions that wire fraud and mail fraud are considered
predicate acts under RICO. This supports the proposition that the wife's
actions, if they involved wire communications in furtherance of a fraudulent
scheme, could constitute wire fraud, a predicate act under RICO.
Additionally, the passage emphasizes the need for these acts to be related
and pose a threat of continuing criminal activity, which aligns with the
described conduct in the proposition.
Corporacion Insular de Seguros v. Reyes Munoz, 849 F.Supp. 126 (D. P.R.
1994)
U.S. District Court — District of Puerto Rico
Extract
The issuing and processing of the checks constitute a violation of the civil
RICO statute. In order to prove a violation of civil RICO, plaintiff must prove:
(1) that there existed an enterprise, which affected interstate commerce; (2)
that codefendants were employed by or associated with the enterprise; (3)
that codefendants participated in the conduct of the enterprise's affairs; and
(4) that codefendants' participation was through a pattern of racketeering
activity. ... Codefendants' participation in the enterprise constituted a
pattern of racketeering. The 'pattern of racketeering activity' consists of a
requisite number of criminal acts performed by the persons composing the
enterprise. ... A pattern requires at least two criminal activities within ten
years. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5) (1984). In addition, the racketeering predicates
must be related and amount to or pose a continued threat of criminal
activity. ... Mail fraud constitutes 'racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341
and 1961(1)(B) (1984).

=== PAGE 18 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage outlines the elements required to establish a civil RICO
violation, including the existence of an enterprise affecting interstate
commerce, participation in the enterprise's affairs, and a pattern of
racketeering activity. The passage also clarifies that a pattern of
racketeering activity requires at least two predicate acts within ten years,
which can include mail fraud. This supports the proposition by providing a
legal framework for establishing a civil RICO claim based on multiple
predicate acts, such as wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen
property, as described in the proposition.
Morrow v. Black, 742 F.Supp. 1199 (E.D. N.Y. 1990)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
The Court began by explaining that the RICO statute did not define 'a
pattern of racketeering activity' but only provided that it required at a
minimum, at least two acts of racketeering. Therefore, the Court turned to
the legislative history for guidance. From the legislative history, the Court
determined that a 'pattern of racketeering activity' required both
'relatedness' between the predicate acts and 'continuity or threat of
continuity' of the acts. Id. at 2900. ... In the case at bar, plaintiffs have
alleged predicate acts which while in actuality only lasted at most a few
months, threatened future criminal activity. Here, according to the
complaint, defendants engaged in one scheme after another. In fact,
according to the complaint, defendants created new schemes to prevent the
previous schemes from being discovered. While plaintiffs may not be able to
prove these allegations, on a motion to dismiss this Court must accept the
allegations as true. In this Court's opinion, if these allegations were proven,
the 'continuity' of defendants acts would be adequately established.
Summary
The court in "Morrow v. Black" discusses the requirements for establishing a
"pattern of racketeering activity" under RICO. The court emphasizes that a
pattern requires at least two predicate acts that are related and
demonstrate continuity or a threat of continuity. The court also notes that
even if the acts only lasted a few months, they could still satisfy the
continuity requirement if they threatened future criminal activity. This
interpretation supports the proposition that the wife's actions, if proven to
involve multiple related predicate acts with continuity, could form a pattern
of racketeering activity under RICO.
Beth Israel Medical Center v. Smith, 576 F.Supp. 1061 (S.D. N.Y. 1983)

=== PAGE 19 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
U.S. District Court — Southern District of New York
Extract
The present suit was filed October 29, 1982, seeking treble damages under
the civil RICO provisions. As predicate RICO acts the complaint alleges
violations of the federal mail and wire fraud statutes, 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341,
1343 (1976)... A 'pattern of racketeering activity' consists of the commission
of two or more such acts within ten years of each other... To state a cause of
action under civil RICO a complaint must allege that the pattern of
racketeering activity was carried on in connection with the affairs of an
'enterprise,' which is defined as 'any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4) (1976).
Summary
The case discusses the requirements for a civil RICO claim, including the
need for a "pattern of racketeering activity" involving at least two predicate
acts within ten years. The passage also highlights that wire fraud is a
recognized predicate act under RICO. This is relevant to the proposition, as
it supports the idea that the wife's actions, if involving wire fraud and other
predicate acts, could form a pattern of racketeering activity under RICO.
Uselmann v. Pop, 495 F.Supp.3d 528 (E.D. Mich. 2020)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Michigan
Extract
Claims for civil violations of RICO are governed by 18 U.S.C. § 1962. The
statute provides that: It shall be unlawful for any person employed by or
associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect,
interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or
indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt. 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). To
state a RICO cause of action, a plaintiff must establish four elements: (1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity. Ouwinga v. Benistar 419 Plan Servs., Inc., 694 F.3d 783, 791 (6th
Cir. 2012) (quoting Moon v. Harrison Piping Supply, 465 F.3d 719, 723 (6th
Cir. 2006) ). Generally, RICO pleadings are to be liberally construed.
Summary
Elements required for a RICO claim and emphasizes that RICO pleadings
are to be liberally construed. This supports the proposition by providing a
legal framework for how the wife's actions could be considered a pattern of
racketeering activity if they involve predicate acts such as wire fraud or
interstate transportation of stolen property.

=== PAGE 20 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Grubbs v. Sheakley Grp., Inc., 807 F.3d 785 (6th Cir. 2015)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Sixth Circuit
Extract
Plaintiffs further allege that Strunk–Zwick and all Sheakley Defendants
violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO)
with their plan to steal Tri–Serve's client base. RICO prohibits any person
employed by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities
of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate,
directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a
pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt. 18 U.S.C. §
1962(c). Both individuals and corporate entities may be held liable under
RICO; a person 'includes any individual or entity capable of holding a legal
or beneficial interest in property.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(3). 'Racketeering activity'
encompasses many criminal acts, including those indictable for mail or wire
fraud. See 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1). Finally, the statute requires at least two acts
of racketeering activity within ten years to qualify as a 'pattern of
racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5). The RICO statute allows a civil
remedy to persons injured by a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). 18 U.S.C. §
1964(c).
Summary
The RICO statute requires a pattern of racketeering activity, which includes
at least two predicate acts such as wire fraud or mail fraud. The passage
confirms that both individuals and entities can be held liable under RICO,
and it provides a civil remedy for those injured by such violations. This
supports the proposition that the wife's actions, if they involved wire fraud
or other predicate acts, could form a pattern of racketeering activity under
RICO.
Heden v. Hill, 937 F.Supp. 1230 (S.D. Tex. 1996)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
Under § 1961(1)(B), racketeering activity includes any act which is
indictable under a number of federal criminal statutes, including mail fraud
and wire fraud. Any act that does not fall within the purview of RICO's
definition of predicate offenses is not an act of 'racketeering activity.' ... In
this case, Heden alleges mail fraud and wire fraud as predicate acts
supporting his civil RICO claims. See 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343. A criminal
conviction of the defendants for mail or wire fraud is not a condition of
urging these offenses as the basis for civil RICO claims. ... A 'pattern of

=== PAGE 21 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
racketeering activity' requires at least two acts of racketeering activity
within a ten-year period. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5).
Summary
Requirements for a civil RICO claim, specifically noting that predicate acts
can include wire fraud and mail fraud, which are relevant to the proposition.
It also clarifies that a criminal conviction is not necessary to allege these
acts in a civil RICO claim. The requirement of a "pattern of racketeering
activity" involving at least two acts within a ten-year period is directly
relevant to the proposition's assertion of multiple predicate acts.
Paycom Billing Services v. Payment Resources, 212 F.Supp.2d 732 (W.D.
Mich. 2002)
U.S. District Court — Western District of Michigan
Extract
Section 1962(c) of RICO provides that '[i]t shall be unlawful for any person
employed by or associated with any enterprise ... to conduct ... such
enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity....' 18 U.S.C. §
1962(c) (1999) (emphasis added). A complaint asserting a RICO claim must
allege the (1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of
racketeering activity. Sedima, SPRL v. Imrex Co., 473 U.S. 479, 496, 105
S.Ct. 3275, 87 L.Ed.2d 346 (1985); Eby v. Producers Co-op, Inc., 959 F.Supp.
428, 432 (W.D.Mich.1997). ... In order to establish a 'racketeering activity,'
Plaintiff must allege a predicate act. Advocacy Org. for Patients & Providers
v. Auto Club Ins. Ass'n, 176 F.3d 315, 322 (6th Cir.1999) (quoting Kenty v.
Bank One, Columbus, N.A., 92 F.3d 384, 389 (6th Cir.1996)). 'Racketeering
activity' is defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1)(B) as including any act 'indictable'
under certain enumerated federal criminal statutes, including 18 U.S.C. §
1343, which makes wire fraud a crime.
Summary
To establish a RICO claim, there must be a pattern of racketeering activity,
which includes predicate acts such as wire fraud. The passage explains the
legal framework for asserting a RICO claim, which aligns with the
proposition that the wife's actions could constitute wire fraud and other
predicate acts under RICO.
Banks v. Wolk, 918 F.2d 418 (3rd Cir. 1990)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Third Circuit

=== PAGE 22 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
The RICO statute authorizes civil suits by '[a]ny person injured in his
business or property by reason of a violation of [18 U.S.C. Sec. 1962].' 18
U.S.C. Sec. 1964(c) (1988). Section 1962(c) prohibits any person employed
by or associated with an enterprise affecting interstate commerce from
'conduct[ing] or participat[ing] ... in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs
through a pattern of racketeering activity.' ... We note that no defendant can
be liable under RICO unless he participated in two or more predicate
offenses sufficient to constitute a pattern. ... In H.J. Inc. v. Northwestern Bell
Telephone Co., --- U.S. ----, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989), the
Supreme Court addressed the standards governing RICO's pattern
requirement. The Court stressed that a pattern requires more than the
commission of two or more predicate acts. A plaintiff must show also 'that
the racketeering acts are related, and that they amount to or pose a threat
of continued criminal activity.'
Summary
For a RICO claim to be valid, there must be a "pattern of racketeering
activity," which involves at least two predicate acts that are related and pose
a threat of continued criminal activity. The passage also clarifies that the
acts need not be part of multiple schemes; a single scheme can suffice if it
poses a threat of future criminal activity. This supports the proposition that
the wife's actions, if they involve wire fraud and interstate transportation of
stolen property, could constitute a pattern of racketeering activity under
RICO.
Ouwinga v. Benistar 419 Plan Servs., Inc., 694 F.3d 783 (6th Cir. 2012)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Sixth Circuit
Extract
To state a RICO claim, a plaintiff must plead the following elements: “(1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity.” ... To establish a substantive RICO violation, a plaintiff must show
“a pattern of racketeering activity.” 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). A pattern of
racketeering activity requires, at a minimum, two acts of racketeering
activity within ten years of each other. ... The Supreme Court has held,
however, that the minimum two acts are not necessarily sufficient and that a
plaintiff must show “that the racketeering predicates are related, and that
they amount to or pose a threat of continued criminal activity.”
Summary
To establish a RICO claim, a plaintiff must demonstrate a pattern of
racketeering activity, which involves at least two related predicate acts that
pose a threat of continued criminal activity. The passage supports the

=== PAGE 23 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
proposition by confirming that the described conduct, involving wire fraud
and interstate transportation of stolen property, could constitute the
necessary predicate acts for a RICO claim.
Heinrich v. Waiting Angels Adoption Servs., Inc., 668 F.3d 393 (6th Cir.
2012)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Sixth Circuit
Extract
To establish a substantive RICO violation, a plaintiff must show 'a pattern of
racketeering activity.' 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). A pattern of racketeering activity
requires, at minimum, two acts of racketeering activity within ten years of
each other. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5). While the statute defines the minimum
number of acts necessary to establish a pattern of racketeering activity, the
Supreme Court has held that the minimum two acts are not necessarily
sufficient. In order to show a 'pattern' of racketeering activity, a plaintiff
must show 'that the racketeering predicates are related, and that they
amount to or pose a threat of continued criminal activity.' H.J. Inc. v. Nw.
Bell Tel. Co., 492 U.S. 229, 237–39, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989).
Summary
To establish a RICO violation, there must be a pattern of racketeering
activity, which requires at least two related predicate acts that pose a threat
of continued criminal activity. The passage supports the proposition by
explaining the legal framework for establishing a RICO claim, which aligns
with the described conduct involving multiple predicate acts such as wire
fraud and interstate transportation of stolen property.
In re Insurance Brokerage Antitrust Litig., 618 F.3d 300 (3rd Cir. 2010)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Third Circuit
Extract
According to the RICO statute, a 'pattern of racketeering activity' requires
at least two acts of racketeering activity within a ten-year period. 18 U.S.C. §
1961(5). 'These predicate acts of racketeering may include, inter alia,
federal mail fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 or federal wire fraud under 18
U.S.C. § 1343.'
Summary
The RICO statute requires at least two acts of racketeering activity within a
ten-year period to establish a "pattern of racketeering activity." The passage
specifically mentions that predicate acts of racketeering may include federal

=== PAGE 24 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
mail fraud and federal wire fraud, which are relevant to the proposition. The
wife's actions, as described in the proposition, could potentially involve wire
fraud if her use of PayPal to empty the joint bank account involved wire
communications in furtherance of a fraudulent scheme. Additionally, if the
wife crossed state lines with the intent to further the fraudulent scheme,
this could constitute another predicate act under RICO.
18 U.S.C. § 2314 18 U.S.C. § 2314 Transportation of Stolen Goods,
Securities, Moneys, Fraudulent State Tax Stamps, Or Articles Used In
Counterfeiting
Extract
Whoever transports, transmits, or transfers in interstate or foreign
commerce any goods, wares, merchandise, securities or money, of the value
of $5,000 or more, knowing the same to have been stolen, converted or
taken by fraud; or Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any
scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means
of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, transports or
causes to be transported, or induces any person or persons to travel in, or to
be transported in interstate or foreign commerce in the execution or
concealment of a scheme or artifice to defraud that person or those persons
of money or property having a value of $5,000 or more;
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 2314 criminalizes the interstate transportation of money or
property valued at $5,000 or more that has been stolen, converted, or taken
by fraud. This statute is relevant to the proposition because it provides a
basis for considering the wife's actions as a predicate act under RICO if she
transported or transferred funds across state lines as part of a fraudulent
scheme. The passage supports the idea that such actions could be
considered part of a "pattern of racketeering activity" if they meet the
criteria outlined in the statute.
18 U.S.C. § 1962 18 U.S.C. § 1962 Prohibited Activities
Extract
It shall be unlawful for any person through a pattern of racketeering activity
or through collection of an unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or
indirectly, any interest in or control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or
the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce.
Summary
Legal basis for arguing that the wife's conduct, involving multiple predicate
acts such as wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen property,

=== PAGE 25 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
could form a pattern of racketeering activity, thus supporting a civil RICO
claim.
18 U.S.C. § 1343 18 U.S.C. § 1343 Fraud By Wire, Radio, Or Television
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be
transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication in
interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or
sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be fined
under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.
Summary
Legal basis for considering such actions as part of a fraudulent scheme,
which is relevant to establishing a pattern of racketeering activity under
RICO.
18 U.S.C. § 1961 18 U.S.C. § 1961 Definitions
Extract
As used in this chapter- 'racketeering activity' means... (B) any act which is
indictable under any of the following provisions of title 18, United States
Code:... section 1341 (relating to mail fraud), section 1343 (relating to wire
fraud),... sections 2314 and 2315 (relating to interstate transportation of
stolen property)... 'pattern of racketeering activity' requires at least two acts
of racketeering activity, one of which occurred after the effective date of this
chapter and the last of which occurred within ten years (excluding any
period of imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act of racketeering
activity;
Summary
The definition of "racketeering activity" under 18 U.S.C. § 1961 includes acts
such as wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen property. These
acts are relevant to the proposition because they align with the alleged
actions of the wife and stepfather, such as using PayPal for fraudulent
transfers (potential wire fraud) and crossing state lines to further a
fraudulent scheme (potential interstate transportation of stolen property).
The passage also clarifies that a "pattern of racketeering activity" requires
at least two predicate acts within a 10-year period, which is consistent with
the proposition's claim of multiple predicate acts.

=== PAGE 26 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
18 U.S.C. § 1964 18 U.S.C. § 1964 Civil Remedies
Extract
Any person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and
the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee...
Summary
Individuals who are injured in their business or property due to a violation of
section 1962 (which includes engaging in a pattern of racketeering activity)
have the right to sue in federal court. They can recover three times the
damages they sustain, along with the cost of the suit and reasonable
attorney's fees. This supports the proposition by confirming that the
husband, if injured by the wife's alleged racketeering activities, could
potentially bring a civil RICO claim and seek treble damages.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Allison, Bridget - 1998-03-22
Extract
The first element of RICO requires two or more predicate acts of
'racketeering activity.' RICO defendants need not be convicted of each
'racketeering activity' before a substantive RICO offense is charged. Under
[sections] 1961(1), the term 'racketeering activity' includes a broad
assortment of state and federal crimes. These crimes include: (a) certain
acts that are chargeable under state laws and punishable by imprisonment
for more than one year; (b) acts that are indictable under specified
provisions of Title 18... RICO, therefore, requires that the commission of two
predicate acts constitute a 'pattern.' In Sedima, S.P.R.L v. Imrex Co., the
Supreme Court attempted to clarify what constitutes a 'pattern of
racketeering.' Reviewing RICO's legislative history, the Court noted in
dictum that the evil which RICO is designed to remedy is organized crime,
not isolated offenses; consequently, isolated predicate acts do not constitute
a pattern. Citing the Senate's original report on the proposed RICO statute,
the Court stated that a pattern consists of 'continuity plus relationship.'
Summary
These acts do not need to be isolated and should form a pattern, which
aligns with the proposition that the wife's actions could constitute a pattern
of racketeering activity under RICO if they involve multiple predicate acts
such as wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen property.

=== PAGE 27 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Chapter Five: The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO)
Statute, 18 U.S.C. §§ 1961–1968
Business Torts Litigation. Fifth Edition - American Bar Association -
Robert W. Dibert
Extract
The most commonly charged RICO predicate acts are mail fraud and wire
fraud, 18 U.S.C. §§ 1341, 1343. The elements of proof necessary to establish
mail or wire fraud predicates are set forth in Section 5.10, infra. ... Under 18
U.S.C. § 1341 [1343], a person who has devised or intended to devise a
scheme or artifice to defraud, or to obtain money or property by means of
false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, and who uses
the mails [or interstate wire communications] to execute or attempt to
execute the scheme or artifice to defraud, has committed mail [wire] fraud.
Summary
Elements required to establish these acts, which align with the proposition's
description of the wife's actions involving wire communications (e.g., using
PayPal) and crossing state lines to further a fraudulent scheme. This
supports the argument that the wife's actions could constitute a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO.
Chapter 4. Elements of Cause of Action
Civil RICO: A Definitive Guide. Fifth Edition - American Bar
Association - Gregory P. Joseph
Extract
Mail and wire fraud are the two most frequently alleged predicate acts. The
mail fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1341, prohibits any person from knowingly
causing the use of the mails—or, since 1994, private carrier services like
FedEx—'for the purpose of executing' any 'scheme or artifice to defraud.' ...
The wire fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1343 provides: Whoever, having devised
or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining
money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be transmitted by
means of wire, ... The raw number of mail or wire fraud violations may not
reflect accurately the extent of deceptive conduct. Under §§ 1341 and 1343,
each mailing and interstate wire communication is a separate offense, even
if each relates to the same scheme to defraud and even if the defendant did
not control the number of mailings or communications.

=== PAGE 28 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Mail and wire fraud are common predicate acts under RICO. The statutes 18
U.S.C. § 1341 and § 1343 define these acts as involving schemes to defraud
using mail or wire communications. Each act of mailing or wire
communication in furtherance of a fraudulent scheme is considered a
separate offense. This supports the proposition that the wife's actions, if
involving wire communications to defraud, could constitute wire fraud, a
predicate act under RICO.
RICO - the rejection of an economic motive requirement.
Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology - Northwestern University,
School of Law - Randolph, Jennifer G. - 1995-03-22
Extract
acts of racketeering were motivated by an economic purpose."(151) ... Chief
Justice Rehnquist concluded that RICO does not require proof that "the
racketeering enterprise or the predicate acts of racketeering were
motivated by an economic purpose."(152) ... Section 1961(1) of RICO defines
certain offenses and acts considered racketeering activity; these offenses
are referred to as RICO predicate acts. 18 U.S.C. [sections] 1961 (1988). ...
sections 2314 and 2315 (relating to interstate transportation of stolen
property)
Summary
RICO does not require an economic motive for the predicate acts of
racketeering, which broadens the applicability of RICO to various fraudulent
schemes, including those described in the proposition. The passage also
confirms that wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen property are
considered predicate acts under RICO, which aligns with the actions
described in the proposition.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Donovan, Emily R. - 1995-01-01
Extract
RICO indictments require that the government prove: (1) that the defendant,
through the commission of two or more acts; (2) constituting a pattern of
racketeering activity; (3) directly or indirectly invested in, or maintained an
interest in, or participated in; (4) an enterprise; (5) the activities of which
affected interstate or foreign commerce... RICO complaints must allege that
each predicate act is a 'racketeering activity'... federal offenses that involve

=== PAGE 29 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
bankruptcy, securities fraud, and controlled drugs... If liability were created
simply by committing two predicate acts, a RICO claim usually would
overlap any commercial fraud claim which involved at least two mailings or
telephone calls... RICO, therefore, requires that the commission of two
predicate acts constitute a 'pattern.'
Summary
Elements necessary for a RICO indictment, including the requirement of
predicate acts such as wire fraud and mail fraud, which are relevant to the
proposition. The passage also discusses the necessity of these acts affecting
interstate commerce, which aligns with the wife's actions of crossing state
lines.
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bailey, Lisa Pritchard - 1999-06-22
Extract
The first element of RICO requires two or more predicate acts of
'racketeering activity.'(28) RICO defendants need not be convicted of each
underlying offense before a civil or criminal RICO offense is charged.(29)
Under [sections] 1961(1), the term 'racketeering activity' includes a broad
assortment of state and federal crimes. These crimes include: (a) certain
acts that are chargeable under state laws and punishable by imprisonment
for more than one year;(30) (b) acts that are indictable under specified
provisions of Title 18;(31)... wire fraud; mail fraud; financial institution
fraud... The Sedima Court further relied on the definition of 'pattern'
provided in 18 U.S.C. [sections] 3575(e)...
Summary
A RICO claim requires at least two predicate acts of racketeering activity,
which can include wire fraud and mail fraud. The passage also clarifies that
defendants do not need to be convicted of each underlying offense before a
RICO charge is made. This supports the proposition that the wife's actions, if
they involved wire fraud and other predicate acts, could form a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bourgeois, Richard L., Jr. - 2000-03-22

=== PAGE 30 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
The first element of RICO requires two or more predicate acts of
'racketeering activity.'(28) RICO defendants need not be convicted of each
underlying offense before a civil or criminal RICO offense is charged.(29)
Under [sections] 1961(1), the term 'racketeering activity' includes a broad
assortment of state and federal crimes... acts that are indictable under
specified provisions of Title 18... wire fraud; mail fraud;... interstate
transportation of stolen property... If committing any two predicate acts
created liability, a RICO claim would usually overlap with any commercial
fraud claim which involved at least two mailings or telephone calls. RICO
therefore applies only where the commission of two predicate acts
constitutes a 'pattern.'(43)... a pattern consists of 'continuity plus
relationship.'
Summary
A RICO claim requires at least two predicate acts of racketeering activity,
which can include wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen
property. The passage also clarifies that these acts must form a "pattern" of
racketeering activity, defined as "continuity plus relationship." This supports
the proposition that the wife's actions, if they involved wire fraud and
interstate transportation of stolen property, could constitute a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bremer, Lance - 1997-01-01
Extract
RICO indictments must allege that each predicate act is a 'racketeering
activity' as delineated in [sections] 1961(1)... As long as the 'racketeering
activity' is 'chargeable' or 'indictable' under an applicable criminal statute,
the RICO charge is available... Under [sections] 1961(1), the term
'racketeering activity' includes a broad assortment of state and federal
crimes... If liability were created simply by committing two predicate acts, a
RICO claim usually would overlap with any commercial fraud claim which
involved at least two mailings or telephone calls. RICO, therefore, requires
that the commission of two predicate acts constitute a 'pattern.'
Summary
The passage explains that for a RICO charge to be available, the predicate
acts must be chargeable or indictable under applicable criminal statutes. It
also clarifies that a pattern of racketeering activity requires more than just
two predicate acts; these acts must form a pattern. This supports the
proposition by indicating that the wife's actions, if they involve wire fraud

=== PAGE 31 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
and interstate transportation of stolen property, could be considered
predicate acts under RICO, forming a pattern of racketeering activity.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Beard, Glen - 1996-03-22
Extract
RICO indictments must allege that each predicate act is a 'racketeering
activity' as delineated in [sections] 1961(1).(31) RICO defendants need not
be convicted of each 'racketeering activity' before a substantive RICO
offense is charged.(32) As long as the 'racketeering activity' is 'chargeable'
or 'indictable' under an applicable criminal statute, the RICO charge is
available.(33) While a minimum of two acts are necessary, more than two
may be required to establish the RICO violation.(34) ... Under [sections]
1961(1), the term 'racketeering activity' includes a broad assortment of
state and federal crimes. These crimes include: (a) certain acts that are
chargeable under state laws and punishable by imprisonment for more than
one year;(35) (b) acts that are indictable under specified provisions of Title
18;(36) ...
Summary
A RICO claim requires at least two predicate acts of racketeering activity,
which can include wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen
property. The passage confirms that these acts do not need to result in a
conviction to be considered in a RICO charge, as long as they are
chargeable or indictable under applicable statutes. This supports the
proposition that the wife's actions, if they involved wire fraud and crossing
state lines for fraudulent purposes, could constitute predicate acts under
RICO.
PAYORS, PLAYERS, AND PROXIMATE CAUSE.
Notre Dame Law Review - University of Notre Dame Law School -
Crusey, Elisabeth F. - 2022-05-01
Extract
RICO is not just a tool for government control over organized crime. It is
also a remedial statute for civil matters. (31) It 'authorize[s]... criminal or
civil remedies on conduct already criminal, when performed in a specified
fashion' as delineated by the statute. (32) Section 1962 provides civil
remedies for four types of conduct: (1) using income derived from a pattern
of racketeering activity (33) to acquire an interest in an enterprise; (2)
acquiring or maintaining an interest in an enterprise through a pattern of

=== PAGE 32 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
racketeering activity; (3) conducting the affairs of an enterprise through a
pattern of racketeering activity; and (4) conspiring to commit any of these
offenses. (34) Today, Congress urges courts to construe RICO liberally from
the 'perspective of the victim, not the perpetrator.' (35) A private civil right
of action in [section] 1964 provides that '[a]ny person injured in his business
or property by reason of a violation of section 1962... may sue.' (36) Notably,
a successful plaintiff under [section] 1964 is entitled to treble damages and
the cost of the suit, including attorney fees. (37)
Summary
Types of conduct that can be remedied under RICO, including conducting
affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity. It also emphasizes the
liberal construction of RICO from the victim's perspective, which supports
the proposition that the wife's actions could be seen as part of a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO.
Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy
The Brief - American Bar Association - 2024-01-01
Extract
A violation of § 1962(c), the section on which Sedima relies, requires (1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity. The plaintiff must allege each of the elements to state a claim. They
are all equally essential components, and the complaint will fail if any one of
them is not adequately pleaded. In particular, RICO claims based on mail or
wire fraud must comport with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 9(b)’s
requirement that allegations involving fraud be pleaded with particularity. ...
RICO’s broad definition of racketeering activity and the act’s reference to
mail and wire fraud as predicate offenses begs the question: Why not
RICO? ... Civil RICO is so broad and offers such a potentially broad pathway
to pleading of such a claim in light of the inclusion of mail and wire fraud as
predicate acts that a plaintiff can take almost any given set of facts and
fashion their pleadings and be afforded the opportunity to plead a civil
racketeering claim. The key is to make certain that each of the four critical
elements previously set out is properly pleaded.
Summary
A civil RICO claim under § 1962(c) requires the plaintiff to allege conduct of
an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, which includes
predicate acts like mail and wire fraud. The passage emphasizes the broad
applicability of RICO, especially when mail and wire fraud are involved, and
the necessity to plead these elements with particularity. This supports the
proposition that the wife's actions, if involving wire fraud and crossing state
lines for fraudulent purposes, could form a pattern of racketeering activity
under RICO.

=== PAGE 33 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Theft offenses
Defending Specific Crimes - James Publishing - Timothy E. Zerillo -
2020-04-29
Extract
Mail fraud, 18 U.S.C. §1341 requires that the defendant devise or intend to
devise a scheme to defraud (or to perform specified fraudulent acts), and
that the defendant use the mail for the purpose of executing, or attempting
to execute, the scheme to defraud. See Schmuck v. United States, 489 U.S.
705, 721 n. 10 (1989); see also Pereira v. United States, 347 U.S. 1, 8 (1954)
(“The elements of the offense of mail fraud under … §1341 are (1) a scheme
to defraud, and (2) the mailing of a letter, etc., for the purpose of executing
the scheme.”). Wire fraud, 18 U.S.C. §1343, is very similar to the mail fraud
Summary
Both mail fraud and wire fraud require a scheme to defraud and the use of
mail or wire communications to execute that scheme. The passage provides
legal definitions and elements of mail and wire fraud, which are relevant to
establishing predicate acts under RICO. The wife's actions, as described in
the proposition, could potentially meet these elements if they involved
fraudulent schemes executed through wire communications (e.g., using
PayPal) or mail (e.g., sending false divorce paperwork).
RICO: A Primer
Extract
Among other things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is
indictable under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an
expansive range of violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18
U.S.C. ' 1951 (extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud);
18 U.S.C. ' 1831 (economic espionage); 18 U.S.C. ' 1832 (theft of trade
secrets); 18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act); 18 U.S.C. ' 1956, 1957 (money
laundering); and 18 U.S.C. ' 2318-2320 (copyright infringement). Mail and
wire fraud are the most common predicate acts.
Summary
RICO encompasses a wide range of criminal activities, including wire fraud
and mail fraud, which are relevant to the proposition. The passage confirms
that wire fraud, which could include the wife's use of PayPal to empty the
joint bank account, is a common predicate act under RICO. This supports the
argument that the wife's actions could be considered part of a "pattern of
racketeering activity" if they meet the criteria for wire fraud.

=== PAGE 34 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
RICO: A Primer
Extract
Among other things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is
indictable under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an
expansive range of violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18
U.S.C. ' 1951 (extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud);
18 U.S.C. ' 1831 (economic espionage); 18 U.S.C. ' 1832 (theft of trade
secrets); 18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act); 18 U.S.C. ' 1956, 1957 (money
laundering); and 18 U.S.C. ' 2318-2320 (copyright infringement). Mail and
wire fraud are the most common predicate acts.
Summary
RICO includes a list of federal criminal statutes that qualify as "racketeering
activities." Among these, wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343) and mail fraud (18
U.S.C. § 1341) are explicitly mentioned as common predicate acts. This
directly supports the proposition that the wife's actions, if involving wire
communications for fraudulent purposes, could constitute wire fraud, a
predicate act under RICO. Additionally, the crossing of state lines with intent
to further a fraudulent scheme could potentially involve other predicate acts
under RICO.
Defending Civil RICO Claims: A Defense Plan Should Be In Every Business's
Arsenal
Extract
RICO is not a simple statute. It pertains to conduct associated with an
'enterprise' and 'a pattern racketeering activity.' An enterprise is an
individual or legal entity, or a union or group of individuals associated in fact
although not a legal entity, while a pattern of racketeering activity requires
long-term, organized conduct to violate state and federal laws. There are
four types of activities outlawed by RICO, and claims under Section 1962(c)
are the most commonly asserted: * Section 1962(c) prohibits a person from
conducting the affairs of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering; ...
Second, to prove most types of RICO claims, the plaintiff must plead that the
defendant committed some qualifying criminal action, the most common of
which is mail, wire or securities fraud. ... Third, the plaintiff must plead a
pattern of racketeering activity for most RICO claims. If the alleged conduct
occurred once or twice, or was not continuous, it cannot form a pattern of
conduct sufficient to support a RICO claim.

=== PAGE 35 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
A civil RICO claim under Section 1962(c) requires a pattern of racketeering
activity, which involves long-term, organized conduct violating state and
federal laws. The passage also highlights that wire fraud is a common
predicate act for RICO claims. The described conduct in the proposition,
involving wire fraud and potentially interstate transportation of stolen
property, aligns with the requirements for a RICO claim as outlined in the
passage.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of June 06, 2025. View full answer on vLex

