FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-What-potential-federal-legal-violations-could-arise-if--prior-to-filing-for-divorce--a-wife-transfer-feb18ee2-1.pdf
PAGES: 12
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
What potential federal legal violations could arise if, prior to filing for
divorce, a wife transfers money to a third party to conceal her bank
information from her husband, the third party communicates with the
husband under false pretenses and assists the wife in effectuating the
transfer, helps her file divorce paperwork, she obtains a second phone, and
then lies about potential abuse to prevent the husband from obtaining her
contact information, and her grandmother serves an eviction notice citing a
protective order that had not yet been filed, resulting in the husband being
removed from the marital home by court order?
Answer (U.S. Federal)
Short response
The described scenario could potentially violate several federal laws,
including wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343), mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341),
conspiracy (18 U.S.C. § 371), and potentially money laundering (18 U.S.C. §
1956) if the actions involved interstate communications or financial
transactions designed to defraud or conceal assets.
Summary
The scenario presents multiple potential federal legal violations centered
around the concealment of assets and the use of deception in the context of
divorce proceedings. The wife's transfer of money to a third party to conceal
bank information, coupled with the third party's communications with the
husband under false pretenses to facilitate this transfer, could constitute
wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343 or mail fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 if
these communications occurred across state lines or used postal services.
Additionally, the coordinated efforts between the wife, third party, and
grandmother could potentially constitute conspiracy under 18 U.S.C. § 371.
The financial aspects of this scenario might also implicate money laundering
statutes (18 U.S.C. § 1956 and § 1957) if the transfers were designed to
conceal or disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, or control of the
funds. The false allegations of abuse to secure protective orders that were
not yet filed at the time of eviction further compounds the deceptive nature
of the scheme. If convicted of any of these offenses, the involved parties
could face significant fines and imprisonment, with potential criminal
forfeiture of property involved in the offenses under 18 U.S.C. § 982.

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Background and Relevant Law
Wire Fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343)
Wire fraud is a significant federal offense that may be applicable to the
scenario described. According to 18 U.S.C. § 1343, wire fraud occurs when
someone "having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be
transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication in
interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or
sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice." The statute
provides penalties of fines and/or imprisonment for up to 20 years for
violations.
The case of Johnson v. Clark, 4:21-CV-39 RLW (E.D. Mo. Sep 22, 2021)
provides further clarification on the elements of wire fraud, stating that wire
fraud occurs when a person "having devised or intending to devise any
scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means
of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or
causes to be transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television
communication in interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs,
signals, pictures, or sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or
artifice."
Mail Fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341)
Similar to wire fraud, mail fraud involves the use of postal services to
execute fraudulent schemes. 18 U.S.C. § 1341 states that whoever "having
devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for
obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises, ... for the purpose of executing such scheme or
artifice or attempting so to do, places in any post office or authorized
depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be sent or
delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited any
matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or
commercial interstate carrier, ... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned
not more than 20 years, or both."
Conspiracy (18 U.S.C. § 371)
The coordinated actions described in the scenario could potentially implicate
federal conspiracy law. 18 U.S.C. § 371 provides that "if two or more persons
conspire either to commit any offense against the United States, or to
defraud the United States, or any agency thereof in any manner or for any
purpose, and one or more of such persons do any act to effect the object of
the conspiracy, each shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more
than five years, or both."

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Money Laundering (18 U.S.C. § 1956)
The financial transactions described in the scenario could potentially violate
federal money laundering statutes. 18 U.S.C. § 1956 states that "whoever,
knowing that the property involved in a financial transaction represents the
proceeds of some form of unlawful activity, conducts or attempts to conduct
such a financial transaction which in fact involves the proceeds of specified
unlawful activity-(A)(i) with the intent to promote the carrying on of
specified unlawful activity; or... (B) knowing that the transaction is designed
in whole or in part-(i) to conceal or disguise the nature, the location, the
source, the ownership, or the control of the proceeds of specified unlawful
activity; or (ii) to avoid a transaction reporting requirement under State or
Federal law, shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than $500,000 or twice
the value of the property involved in the transaction, whichever is greater,
or imprisonment for not more than twenty years, or both."
In U.S. v. Prince, 214 F.3d 740 (6th Cir. 1999), the court addressed a case
where defendants "did knowingly and wilfully conduct and attempt to
conduct a financial transaction which involved the proceeds of a specified
unlawful activity, to wit, wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States
Code, Section 1343, said activity being punishable under the laws of the
United States, knowing that the transaction was designed to conceal and
disguise the nature, the location, the source, the ownership, and the control
of the specified unlawful activity."
Engaging in Monetary Transactions in Property Derived
from Specified Unlawful Activity (18 U.S.C. § 1957)
18 U.S.C. § 1957 provides that "whoever, in any of the circumstances set
forth in subsection (d), knowingly engages or attempts to engage in a
monetary transaction in criminally derived property of a value greater than
$10,000 and is derived from specified unlawful activity, shall be punished as
provided in subsection (b)."
Bank Fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1344)
If the wife's actions involved deceiving a financial institution, 18 U.S.C. §
1344 could be relevant. This statute provides that "whoever knowingly
executes, or attempts to execute, a scheme or artifice- to defraud a financial
institution; or to obtain any of the moneys, funds, credits, assets, securities,
or other property owned by, or under the custody or control of, a financial
institution, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or
promises; shall be fined not more than $1,000,000 or imprisoned not more
than 30 years, or both."
Criminal Forfeiture (18 U.S.C. § 982)
In the event of a conviction for any of the above offenses, 18 U.S.C. § 982
provides that "the court, in imposing sentence on a person convicted of an
offense in violation of section 1956, 1957, or 1960 of this title, shall order

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
that the person forfeit to the United States any property, real or personal,
involved in such offense, or any property traceable to such property."
Analysis
Wire Fraud Analysis
The scenario involves a wife transferring money to a third party to conceal
bank information from her husband, with the third party communicating
with the husband under false pretenses to help effectuate this transfer. If
these communications occurred via interstate wire communications (such as
phone calls, emails, text messages, or other electronic means), they could
potentially constitute wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343.
To establish wire fraud, the prosecution would need to prove: (1) the
existence of a scheme to defraud; (2) the use of interstate wire
communications in furtherance of the scheme; and (3) the specific intent to
defraud. The coordinated efforts between the wife and the third party to
conceal financial assets from the husband during divorce proceedings could
constitute a "scheme to defraud" if they involved false pretenses,
representations, or promises.
The case of Johnson v. Clark, 4:21-CV-39 RLW (E.D. Mo. Sep 22, 2021)
clarifies that wire fraud involves "devised or intending to devise any scheme
or artifice to defraud" and using wire communications to execute that
scheme. If the third party's communications with the husband under false
pretenses were conducted via interstate wire communications, this element
would be satisfied.
The specific intent to defraud could be inferred from the deliberate actions
to conceal assets and provide false information. The combination of these
elements—a scheme to defraud, use of interstate wire communications, and
specific intent—could constitute wire fraud, potentially subjecting the wife
and third party to significant penalties, including fines and imprisonment for
up to 20 years under 18 U.S.C. § 1343.
Mail Fraud Analysis
Similar to wire fraud, if the scheme involved the use of the U.S. Postal
Service or private interstate carriers to execute the fraudulent scheme, mail
fraud charges under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 could apply. This might include
sending documents related to the transfer of money, divorce paperwork, or
the eviction notice through the mail.
The elements of mail fraud parallel those of wire fraud, requiring: (1) a
scheme to defraud; (2) use of the mail in furtherance of the scheme; and (3)
specific intent to defraud. If the grandmother's eviction notice citing a non-
existent protective order was sent through the mail, this could constitute
mail fraud. Similarly, if any divorce paperwork containing false information
was sent through the mail, this could also support mail fraud charges.

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
The penalties for mail fraud are the same as those for wire fraud: fines and/
or imprisonment for up to 20 years under 18 U.S.C. § 1341.
Conspiracy Analysis
The coordinated actions between the wife, the third party, and potentially
the grandmother could constitute a conspiracy under 18 U.S.C. § 371 if there
was an agreement to commit a federal offense (such as wire fraud or mail
fraud) and at least one overt act was taken in furtherance of that agreement.
The elements of conspiracy include: (1) an agreement between two or more
persons to commit a federal offense; (2) knowledge of and voluntary
participation in the agreement; and (3) an overt act by one of the
conspirators in furtherance of the agreement. The scenario suggests a
coordinated effort between the wife, the third party, and potentially the
grandmother to conceal assets, provide false information, and ultimately
remove the husband from the marital home. If there was an agreement
between these parties to engage in these activities, and if they took overt
acts to further this agreement (such as transferring money, communicating
under false pretenses, or serving the eviction notice), conspiracy charges
could apply.
Conspiracy charges under 18 U.S.C. § 371 carry penalties of fines and/or
imprisonment for up to five years.
Money Laundering Analysis
The financial transactions described in the scenario could potentially
implicate federal money laundering statutes if they were designed to
conceal or disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, or control of
proceeds from unlawful activities.
Under 18 U.S.C. § 1956, money laundering occurs when someone conducts a
financial transaction knowing that the property involved represents the
proceeds of unlawful activity, with the intent to promote unlawful activity or
knowing that the transaction is designed to conceal aspects of the proceeds
or to avoid transaction reporting requirements. If the wife's transfer of
money to a third party was designed to conceal the location or ownership of
these funds, and if these funds were in some way connected to unlawful
activity, this could constitute money laundering.
In U.S. v. Prince, 214 F.3d 740 (6th Cir. 1999), the court addressed a case
involving financial transactions designed to conceal the nature, location,
source, ownership, and control of proceeds from wire fraud. The case
illustrates how wire fraud and money laundering charges can be connected,
as they might be in this scenario if the wife and third party first engaged in
wire fraud to deceive the husband and then conducted financial transactions
designed to conceal assets.
Money laundering charges under 18 U.S.C. § 1956 carry severe penalties,
including fines of up to $500,000 or twice the value of the property involved
(whichever is greater) and/or imprisonment for up to 20 years.

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Engaging in Monetary Transactions in Property Derived
from Specified Unlawful Activity Analysis
If the wife's transfer of money to a third party involved property derived
from specified unlawful activity and exceeded $10,000, 18 U.S.C. § 1957
could apply. This statute criminalizes knowingly engaging in monetary
transactions involving criminally derived property of a value greater than
$10,000. Unlike 18 U.S.C. § 1956, this statute does not require proof that the
transaction was designed to conceal or disguise the nature of the proceeds
or to avoid transaction reporting requirements.
For this statute to apply, the prosecution would need to prove that the
property involved in the transaction was derived from specified unlawful
activity, such as wire fraud or mail fraud. If the wife's actions first
constituted wire fraud or mail fraud, and then she conducted financial
transactions involving the proceeds of that fraud, 18 U.S.C. § 1957 could
potentially apply if the amount exceeded $10,000.
Bank Fraud Analysis
If the wife's actions involved deceiving a financial institution to engage in
the transactions, 18 U.S.C. § 1344 could be relevant. This statute prohibits
schemes to defraud financial institutions or to obtain money or property
under their control through false pretenses.
For bank fraud charges to apply, the prosecution would need to prove that
the wife knowingly executed a scheme to defraud a financial institution or to
obtain money or property under its control through false pretenses. If the
wife provided false information to a bank to facilitate the transfer of money
to the third party, this could potentially constitute bank fraud.
Bank fraud charges carry severe penalties, including fines of up to
$1,000,000 and/or imprisonment for up to 30 years under 18 U.S.C. § 1344.
Criminal Forfeiture Analysis
In the event of a conviction for money laundering under 18 U.S.C. § 1956 or 
§ 1957, 18 U.S.C. § 982 provides for criminal forfeiture of "any property, real
or personal, involved in such offense, or any property traceable to such
property." This means that if the wife and/or third party were convicted of
money laundering, they could be required to forfeit any property involved in
the offense, including the money that was transferred.
Exceptions and Caveats
Several caveats should be noted in analyzing potential federal violations in
this scenario:
Jurisdictional Requirements: Federal wire fraud requires interstate
or foreign wire communications. If all communications occurred within
1. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
a single state, federal jurisdiction might not attach, though state fraud
laws might still apply.
Intent Requirements: Each of the statutes discussed requires specific
types of intent. For wire fraud and mail fraud, the prosecution must
prove a specific intent to defraud. For money laundering under 18
U.S.C. § 1956, the prosecution must prove knowledge that the
transaction was designed to conceal aspects of the proceeds or to avoid
transaction reporting requirements.
Specified Unlawful Activity: For money laundering charges under 18
U.S.C. § 1956 and § 1957, the property involved must be connected to
"specified unlawful activity" as defined by statute. If the wife's actions
did not first constitute a specified unlawful activity, money laundering
charges might not apply.
Monetary Thresholds: 18 U.S.C. § 1957 requires that the monetary
transaction involve property of a value greater than $10,000. If the
amount involved was less than this threshold, this specific statute
would not apply.
Eviction Notice and Protective Order: The scenario mentions that
the grandmother served an eviction notice citing a protective order that
had not yet been filed. While this might involve false statements, it may
not rise to the level of federal fraud unless interstate communications
or mails were used. However, it could potentially support conspiracy
charges if it was part of a broader agreement to commit federal
offenses.
Divorce Proceedings Context: Courts might consider the context of
divorce proceedings, where spouses might take actions to protect
assets they believe are rightfully theirs. However, deliberately
concealing assets through fraudulent means during divorce
proceedings is generally not protected activity.
Conclusion
The scenario described presents multiple potential federal legal violations.
The wife's transfer of money to a third party to conceal bank information,
coupled with the third party's communications with the husband under false
pretenses, could constitute wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343 if interstate
wire communications were used. If the U.S. Postal Service or private
interstate carriers were used to execute the scheme, mail fraud charges
under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 could apply.
The coordinated efforts between the wife, the third party, and potentially the
grandmother could constitute conspiracy under 18 U.S.C. § 371 if there was
an agreement to commit federal offenses and overt acts were taken in
furtherance of that agreement.
The financial transactions described could potentially implicate federal
money laundering statutes if they were designed to conceal aspects of the
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
proceeds of unlawful activity (18 U.S.C. § 1956) or if they involved criminally
derived property exceeding $10,000 (18 U.S.C. § 1957).
If the wife's actions involved deceiving a financial institution, bank fraud
charges under 18 U.S.C. § 1344 could potentially apply. And if convicted of
money laundering, criminal forfeiture under 18 U.S.C. § 982 could result in
the forfeiture of property involved in the offense.
The specific facts and circumstances, including the nature of the
communications, the intent behind the actions, the amounts involved, and
the involvement of financial institutions, would ultimately determine which,
if any, federal charges might apply. However, the scenario as described
suggests a coordinated scheme involving deception and concealment that
could potentially violate multiple federal statutes, subjecting the
participants to significant criminal penalties.
Legal Authorities
Johnson v. Clark, 4:21-CV-39 RLW (E.D. Mo. Sep 22, 2021)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Missouri
Extract
Wire fraud occurs when a person: having devised or intending to devise any
scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means
of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or
causes to be transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television
communication in interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs,
signals, pictures, or sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or
artifice.
Summary
Wire fraud involves a scheme to defraud or obtain money or property
through false pretenses, representations, or promises, and involves the
transmission of communications via wire, radio, or television in interstate or
foreign commerce. This is relevant to the question as the wife's actions, in
concert with the third party, could potentially constitute wire fraud if they
involved such communications to conceal assets or deceive the husband.
U.S. v. Prince, 214 F.3d 740 (6th Cir. 1999)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Sixth Circuit
Extract
On or about March 10, 1995, in the Western District of Tennessee, the
defendants, being aided and abetted, counseled and induced by the other,

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
did knowingly and wilfully conduct and attempt to conduct a financial
transaction which involved the proceeds of a specified unlawful activity, to
wit, wire fraud, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343,
said activity being punishable under the laws of the United States, knowing
that the transaction was designed to conceal and disguise the nature, the
location, the source, the ownership, and the control of the specified unlawful
activity, and that while conducting and attempting to conduct such financial
transactions knew the property involved in the financial transaction, to wit,
a $13,750.00 cash transfer, represented the proceeds of some form of
unlawful activity, all in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section
1956(a)(1)(B)(i) and Section 2.
Summary
The passage discusses violations of federal law related to financial
transactions intended to conceal or disguise the nature of proceeds from
unlawful activities. Specifically, it references wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. §
1343 and money laundering under 18 U.S.C. § 1956(a)(1)(B)(i). These
statutes could potentially apply to the scenario described in the question if
the wife's actions involved fraudulent pretenses or attempts to conceal the
nature of financial transactions.
18 U.S.C. § 1343 18 U.S.C. § 1343 Fraud By Wire, Radio, Or Television
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be
transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication in
interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or
sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be fined
under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1343 addresses schemes to defraud using wire communications.
In the scenario described, if the wife and the third party used wire
communications (such as phone calls, emails, or other electronic
communications) to execute a scheme to conceal assets or defraud the
husband, this could potentially constitute wire fraud under this statute. The
statute is applicable to any fraudulent scheme involving interstate or foreign
commerce, which could include the described actions if they involved such
communications.
18 U.S.C. § 371 18 U.S.C. § 371 Conspiracy to Commit Offense Or to Defraud
United States

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
If two or more persons conspire either to commit any offense against the
United States, or to defraud the United States, or any agency thereof in any
manner or for any purpose, and one or more of such persons do any act to
effect the object of the conspiracy, each shall be fined under this title or
imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 371 addresses conspiracies to commit offenses against the
United States or to defraud the United States or its agencies. The statute
provides for penalties of fines or imprisonment for up to five years for those
involved in such conspiracies. In the scenario described, if the actions of the
wife, third party, and grandmother were part of a conspiracy to commit a
federal offense or to defraud a federal agency, they could potentially be
charged under this statute.
18 U.S.C. § 1341 18 U.S.C. § 1341 Frauds and Swindles
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, ... for the purpose of executing
such scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, places in any post office or
authorized depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be
sent or delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited
any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or
commercial interstate carrier, ... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned
not more than 20 years, or both.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1341 addresses schemes or artifices to defraud, particularly
those involving false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises.
The statute specifically targets actions involving the use of mail or interstate
carriers to execute such schemes. In the scenario described, if the wife and
the third party used mail or interstate carriers to facilitate the transfer of
money or to communicate false information, they could potentially be in
violation of this statute.
18 U.S.C. § 1344 18 U.S.C. § 1344 Bank Fraud

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Whoever knowingly executes, or attempts to execute, a scheme or artifice-
to defraud a financial institution; or to obtain any of the moneys, funds,
credits, assets, securities, or other property owned by, or under the custody
or control of, a financial institution, by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises; shall be fined not more than
$1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 years, or both.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1344 addresses bank fraud, which involves executing or
attempting to execute a scheme to defraud a financial institution or to obtain
property under its control through false pretenses. In the scenario
described, if the wife's actions involved deceiving a financial institution to
conceal bank information or transfer funds, this could potentially constitute
bank fraud under this statute. The statute is applicable to any fraudulent
scheme targeting financial institutions, making it relevant to the question.
18 U.S.C. § 982 18 U.S.C. § 982 Criminal Forfeiture
Extract
The court, in imposing sentence on a person convicted of an offense in
violation of section 1956, 1957, or 1960 of this title, shall order that the
person forfeit to the United States any property, real or personal, involved in
such offense, or any property traceable to such property.
Summary
Upon conviction, the court would order the forfeiture of any property
involved in the offense. This is relevant to the question as it involves the
potential concealment of financial assets.
18 U.S.C. § 1956 18 U.S.C. § 1956 Laundering of Monetary Instruments
Extract
Whoever, knowing that the property involved in a financial transaction
represents the proceeds of some form of unlawful activity, conducts or
attempts to conduct such a financial transaction which in fact involves the
proceeds of specified unlawful activity-(A)(i) with the intent to promote the
carrying on of specified unlawful activity; or... (B) knowing that the
transaction is designed in whole or in part-(i) to conceal or disguise the
nature, the location, the source, the ownership, or the control of the
proceeds of specified unlawful activity; or (ii) to avoid a transaction
reporting requirement under State or Federal law, shall be sentenced to a

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
fine of not more than $500,000 or twice the value of the property involved in
the transaction, whichever is greater, or imprisonment for not more than
twenty years, or both.
Summary
The act of transferring money to a third party to conceal bank information
could potentially fall under money laundering if the transaction is designed
to conceal or disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, or control of
the proceeds of specified unlawful activity. The passage outlines penalties
for such actions, including fines and imprisonment. This is relevant to the
question as it addresses the potential legal violations related to the financial
transaction aspect of the scenario.
18 U.S.C. § 1957 18 U.S.C. § 1957 Engaging In Monetary Transactions In
Property Derived From Specified Unlawful Activity
Extract
Whoever, in any of the circumstances set forth in subsection (d), knowingly
engages or attempts to engage in a monetary transaction in criminally
derived property of a value greater than $10,000 and is derived from
specified unlawful activity, shall be punished as provided in subsection (b).
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1957 addresses engaging in monetary transactions involving
criminally derived property. If the wife's transfer of money to a third party
involves property derived from a criminal offense and exceeds $10,000, it
could potentially violate this statute. The statute does not require the
government to prove that the defendant knew the property was derived from
specified unlawful activity, which broadens its applicability.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of June 07, 2025. View full answer on vLex

