FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-The-individuals-submitted-false-documents-to-Texas-courts--which-were-prepared-in-Oklahoma--and-requ-1.pdf
PAGES: 22
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
The individuals submitted false documents to Texas courts, which were
prepared in Oklahoma, and requested the U.S. Marshals to serve the orders.
The submission of false documents and misuse of court processes were part
of a scheme to remove Charles Dustin Myers from his home. Predicate acts
under RICO include mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341), wire fraud (18 U.S.C. §
1343), and obstruction of justice (18 U.S.C. § 1503), among others. If the
false documents were transmitted via mail or electronic communication, or
if the actions obstructed justice, these acts could qualify as predicate
offenses under RICO. The repeated acts of submitting false documents and
coordinating their use in court proceedings could establish a pattern of
racketeering activity.
Answer (U.S. Federal)
Short response
Based on the provided materials, submitting false documents to Texas courts
that were prepared in Oklahoma and requesting U.S. Marshals to serve the
orders could constitute predicate acts under RICO if these documents were
transmitted via mail or electronic communication (mail fraud under 18
U.S.C. § 1341 or wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343) or if the actions
obstructed justice (under 18 U.S.C. § 1503). The repeated acts of submitting
false documents and coordinating their use in court proceedings would
likely establish the required pattern of racketeering activity needed for a
RICO violation.
Summary
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) prohibits
conducting an enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity.
In this case, the submission of false documents to Texas courts that were
prepared in Oklahoma and requesting U.S. Marshals to serve orders as part
of a scheme to remove Charles Dustin Myers from his home could constitute
predicate acts under RICO if these actions involved mail fraud (18 U.S.C. §
1341), wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343), or obstruction of justice (18 U.S.C. §
1503). The interstate nature of the activities (Oklahoma to Texas)
strengthens the potential for federal jurisdiction and applicability of RICO.
To establish a RICO violation, there must be (1) conduct (2) of an enterprise
(3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity. The pattern requirement
necessitates at least two predicate acts within a ten-year period that are
related and demonstrate continuity. The repeated acts of submitting false
documents and coordinating their use in court proceedings could establish
this pattern, particularly if the acts were transmitted via mail or electronic
communication or impeded the administration of justice, as these actions
would qualify as predicate offenses under RICO's statutory framework.

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Background and Relevant Law
RICO Framework and Predicate Acts
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) was
enacted to curb racketeering activity. RICO defines "racketeering activity" to
include specific federal offenses listed in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1), which states
that "racketeering activity" means "any act which is indictable under any of
the following provisions of title 18, United States Code: ... section 1341
(relating to mail fraud), section 1343 (relating to wire fraud), ... section 1503
(relating to obstruction of justice)..." 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1).
A "pattern of racketeering activity" is defined as requiring "at least two acts
of racketeering activity, one of which occurred after the effective date of this
chapter and the last of which occurred within ten years (excluding any
period of imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act of racketeering
activity" 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5).
The prohibited activities under RICO include: "It shall be unlawful for any
person through a pattern of racketeering activity or through collection of an
unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest in or
control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce." 18 U.S.C. § 1962.
Mail Fraud as a Predicate Act
Mail fraud, as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1341, occurs when someone, "having
devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for
obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises... places in any post office or authorized
depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be sent or
delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited any
matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or
commercial interstate carrier... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned
not more than 20 years, or both." 18 U.S.C. § 1341.
In Allstate Ins. Co. v. Benhamou, 190 F.Supp.3d 631 (S.D. Tex. 2016), the
court identified the elements of RICO mail fraud as: "(1) a scheme to defraud
by means of false or fraudulent representation; (2) interstate or intrastate
use of the mails to execute the scheme; (3) the use of the mails by the
defendant connected with or incident to the scheme; and (4) actual injury to
the plaintiff."
Wire Fraud as a Predicate Act
Wire fraud is defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1343 as occurring when someone,
"having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to defraud, or
for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses,
representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be transmitted by
means of wire, radio, or television communication in interstate or foreign

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or sounds for the purpose
of executing such scheme or artifice..." 18 U.S.C. § 1343.
Obstruction of Justice as a Predicate Act
Obstruction of justice is defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1503, which prohibits actions
where someone "corruptly, or by threats or force, or by any threatening
letter or communication, endeavors to influence, intimidate, or impede any
grand or petit juror, or officer in or of any court of the United States, or
officer who may be serving at any examination or other proceeding before
any United States magistrate judge or other committing magistrate, in the
discharge of his duty, or ... corruptly or by threats or force, or by any
threatening letter or communication, influences, obstructs, or impedes, or
endeavors to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due administration of
justice..." 18 U.S.C. § 1503.
In D'Addario v. Geller, 264 F.Supp.2d 367 (E.D. Va. 2003), the court
recognized that obstruction of justice under 18 U.S.C. § 1503 can serve as a
predicate act for RICO, noting that the plaintiff's claims included allegations
that the defendant "engaged in predicate acts of mail fraud and obstruction
of justice in a scheme to defraud RMST and its shareholders via a pattern of
racketeering activity in violation of RICO, 18 U.S.C. § 1962..."
Pattern of Racketeering Activity
To establish a RICO violation, a plaintiff must prove a pattern of
racketeering activity. In Ketner v. Widell, No. 5:20-cv-6360 (E.D. Pa. Jul 06,
2021), the court noted that "RICO requires a plaintiff to show that the
defendant committed at least two predicate acts of racketeering in a ten-
year period. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5). ... A plaintiff can establish a pattern of
racketeering by showing that the predicate acts are related and pose or
amount to a threat of continued criminal activity."
Similarly, in Uselmann v. Pop, 495 F.Supp.3d 528 (E.D. Mich. 2020), the
court explained that "a plaintiff must allege that a RICO enterprise engaged
in a pattern of racketeering activity, which must consist of 'at least two
predicate acts of racketeering activity occurring within a ten-year period.'"
The court further noted that "Both the mail fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1341,
and the wire fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1343, are listed as predicate
racketeering offenses under RICO."
Elements of a RICO Claim
In Mowett v. Jpmorgan Chase Bank, Case No. 15-12612 (E.D. Mich. Mar 31,
2016), the court outlined the elements required to establish a RICO cause of
action: "To prevail on a RICO cause of action, a plaintiff must establish (1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity." This case was stated as abrogated by Fuller v. Select Portfolio
Servicing, Inc., Case No. 1:19-cv-28 (W.D. Mich. Mar 02, 2021). However,
this abrogation does not appear to affect the basic elements of a RICO claim

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
as stated, as these elements are consistently recognized across multiple
other authorities.
Similarly, Lockhart v. Deluca (2023-09-13) reiterated that RICO "was
enacted to curb 'racketeering activity,' which it defines as any act
'chargeable' under several generically described state criminal laws, any act
'indictable' under numerous specific federal criminal provisions, including
mail and wire fraud, and any 'offense' involving bankruptcy or securities
fraud or drug-related activities that is 'punishable' under federal law."
Analysis
Submission of False Documents as Potential Predicate Acts
The submission of false documents to Texas courts that were prepared in
Oklahoma could constitute predicate acts under RICO if these documents
were transmitted via mail or electronic communication, or if the actions
obstructed justice.
Mail Fraud Analysis
If the false documents were transmitted via mail, either through the U.S.
Postal Service or private carriers, this could constitute mail fraud under 18
U.S.C. § 1341. As outlined in Allstate Ins. Co. v. Benhamou, 190 F.Supp.3d
631 (S.D. Tex. 2016), RICO mail fraud requires "(1) a scheme to defraud by
means of false or fraudulent representation; (2) interstate or intrastate use
of the mails to execute the scheme; (3) the use of the mails by the defendant
connected with or incident to the scheme; and (4) actual injury to the
plaintiff."
The scheme to remove Charles Dustin Myers from his home through the
submission of false documents to Texas courts could satisfy the "scheme to
defraud" element. If these documents were sent through the mail from
Oklahoma to Texas, this would fulfill the "interstate use of the mails"
requirement. The connection between the use of mail and the scheme is
evident if the documents were essential to the fraudulent court proceedings.
Finally, Mr. Myers's removal from his home would constitute an actual injury.
As noted in secondary material "Mail and Wire Fraud" (2022-07-01), there
are numerous examples of "RICO conviction based on mail and wire fraud"
and "defining racketeering activity as the commission of certain federal
crimes, including mail fraud, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1341." This supports
the proposition that mail fraud can serve as a predicate act under RICO.
Wire Fraud Analysis
Similarly, if the false documents were transmitted via electronic
communication, such as email or electronic court filing systems, this could
constitute wire fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343. The elements would be
substantially similar to those of mail fraud, requiring a scheme to defraud,

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
the use of interstate wire communications, and a connection between the
wire communications and the scheme.
As noted in "RICO: A Primer" (2022-01-31), "Mail and wire fraud are the
most common predicate acts" under RICO. This underscores the relevance
of these offenses as potential predicate acts in this case.
Obstruction of Justice Analysis
The submission of false documents to courts and the misuse of court
processes could also constitute obstruction of justice under 18 U.S.C. § 1503.
This statute prohibits actions that "corruptly... influence, obstruct, or
impede, or endeavor to influence, obstruct, or impede, the due
administration of justice."
In D'Addario v. Geller, 264 F.Supp.2d 367 (E.D. Va. 2003), the court
recognized that "allegedly false statements made in court were intended to
obstruct or actually did obstruct justice by attempting to influence the due
administration of justice." This supports the proposition that submitting
false documents to courts could qualify as obstruction of justice and serve as
a predicate act under RICO.
Similarly, in US v. Bertoli, 854 F. Supp. 975 (D. N.J. 1994), the court
identified as racketeering acts "submitting false and fraudulent affidavits to
the court." However, it's important to note that this case was stated as
vacated by State v. Hacheney, No. 29965-8-II (WA 8/3/2005). Despite this
vacatur, the general principle that submitting false documents to a court can
constitute obstruction of justice remains valid, as it is supported by the
statutory language of 18 U.S.C. § 1503 and other cases.
Establishing a Pattern of Racketeering Activity
To establish a RICO violation, there must be a "pattern of racketeering
activity," which requires at least two predicate acts within a ten-year period.
The repeated acts of submitting false documents and coordinating their use
in court proceedings could establish this pattern.
In Arizona Premium Finance, Inc. v. Bielli, 77 F.Supp.2d 341 (E.D. N.Y.
1999), the court explained that to establish a pattern of racketeering
activity, "a plaintiff must plead at least two predicate acts, show that the acts
are related and that they amount to, or pose a threat of, continuing criminal
activity."
The submission of multiple false documents, or the involvement of multiple
individuals in a coordinated scheme, could satisfy the requirement of at least
two predicate acts. These acts would be related if they were part of the
same scheme to remove Charles Dustin Myers from his home. The
continuous nature of the activity could be established if the acts occurred
over a period of time or if they represented an ongoing threat.
As noted in Ketner v. Widell, No. 5:20-cv-6360 (E.D. Pa. Jul 06, 2021), "A
plaintiff can establish a pattern of racketeering by showing that the

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
predicate acts are related and pose or amount to a threat of continued
criminal activity." The coordination of submitting false documents and their
use in court proceedings suggests a level of organization and continuity that
could satisfy this requirement.
Interstate Commerce Requirement
RICO requires that the enterprise be "engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce" 18 U.S.C. § 1962. The fact that the
documents were prepared in Oklahoma and submitted to Texas courts
clearly establishes an interstate connection, satisfying this requirement.
As noted in Mowett v. Jpmorgan Chase Bank, Case No. 15-12612 (E.D. Mich.
Mar 31, 2016), one of the elements of a RICO cause of action under §
1962(c) is that the enterprise must be "engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce." Though this case was stated as
abrogated, this particular requirement is directly stated in the RICO statute
and remains valid.
Civil Remedies Under RICO
If a RICO violation is established, civil remedies are available under 18
U.S.C. § 1964, which states that "Any person injured in his business or
property by reason of a violation of section 1962 of this chapter may sue
therefor in any appropriate United States district court and shall recover
threefold the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including a
reasonable attorney's fee..." 18 U.S.C. § 1964.
This means that Charles Dustin Myers could potentially recover treble
damages for any injuries to his business or property resulting from the
violation, such as the loss of use of his home or associated expenses.
Exceptions and Caveats
Specific Intent Requirement
Mail and wire fraud require a specific intent to defraud. This means that it
must be shown that the individuals who submitted the false documents had
the specific intent to defraud, not merely that they were mistaken or
negligent. The facts suggest a deliberate scheme, which would likely satisfy
this requirement, but specific evidence of fraudulent intent would be
necessary.
Causation and Injury
For a civil RICO claim, there must be an actual injury that was proximately
caused by the pattern of racketeering activity. If Charles Dustin Myers was
successfully removed from his home as a result of the false documents and
misuse of court processes, this would likely satisfy the injury requirement.
However, if the scheme was unsuccessful or if the injury was not directly

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
caused by the racketeering activity, this could present challenges to a RICO
claim.
Specificity in Pleading
RICO claims based on fraud must be pled with particularity under Rule 9(b)
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. As noted in "Civil Rico: A Tool of
Advocacy" (2024-01-01), "RICO claims based on mail or wire fraud must
comport with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 9(b)'s requirement that
allegations involving fraud be pleaded with particularity." This means that
the complaint must specify the time, place, content of the false
representations, the identity of the person making the misrepresentations,
and what they obtained as a result.
Statute of Limitations
RICO claims are subject to a four-year statute of limitations. The clock
typically begins to run when the plaintiff discovers or should have
discovered the injury. If the events in question occurred more than four
years ago and Mr. Myers has been aware of the injury for that period, a
RICO claim may be time-barred.
Conclusion
Based on the provided materials, the submission of false documents to Texas
courts that were prepared in Oklahoma and the request for U.S. Marshals to
serve the orders as part of a scheme to remove Charles Dustin Myers from
his home could potentially establish a violation of RICO if:
The false documents were transmitted via mail (constituting mail fraud
under 18 U.S.C. § 1341) or electronic communication (constituting wire
fraud under 18 U.S.C. § 1343);
The actions obstructed justice (under 18 U.S.C. § 1503); and
These acts formed a pattern of racketeering activity, meaning there
were at least two related predicate acts within a ten-year period that
demonstrated continuity or the threat of continuity.
The fact that the documents were prepared in Oklahoma and submitted to
Texas courts establishes an interstate connection, satisfying RICO's
requirement that the enterprise's activities affect interstate commerce.
If a RICO violation is established, Charles Dustin Myers could potentially
recover treble damages for any injuries to his business or property resulting
from the violation, such as the loss of use of his home or associated
expenses.
However, several challenges and requirements must be addressed, including
establishing specific intent to defraud, demonstrating causation and actual
injury, pleading with particularity under Rule 9(b), and ensuring the claim is
not time-barred by the four-year statute of limitations.
1. 
2. 
3. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
In conclusion, the repeated acts of submitting false documents and
coordinating their use in court proceedings could establish a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO if they involved mail fraud, wire fraud, or
obstruction of justice, providing a potential legal remedy for Charles Dustin
Myers.
Legal Authorities
U.S. v. Triumph Capital Group, Inc., 260 F.Supp.2d 444 (D. Conn. 2002)
U.S. District Court — District of Connecticut
Extract
The indictment charges each defendant with at least two acts of
racketeering consisting of either bribery, aiding and abetting bribe
receiving, obstruction of justice or witness tampering. Further, the
indictment alleges that the enterprise was engaged in, and its activities
affected, interstate commerce. ... Obstruction of justice and witness
tampering are also charged as predicate acts. Specifically, Racketeering Act
5 (obstruction of justice) charges that between May 25, 1999, and April,
2000, Spadoni and Triumph obstructed justice in connection with a federal
grand jury investigation by deleting, overwriting or destroying documents
and information stored on a laptop computer owned by Triumph and
assigned to Spadoni, and by deleting, destroying or failing to produce
diskettes which contained documents and information that were relevant to
a grand jury investigation.
Summary
The court recognized obstruction of justice and fraud as predicate acts
under RICO. The passage describes how the defendants were charged with
obstruction of justice by destroying or failing to produce documents relevant
to a grand jury investigation. This aligns with the proposition that
submitting false documents and obstructing justice can be considered
predicate acts under RICO. The passage also highlights the requirement of a
pattern of racketeering activity, which involves at least two predicate acts
that are related and demonstrate continuity or the threat of continuity.
D'Addario v. Geller, 264 F.Supp.2d 367 (E.D. Va. 2003)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Virginia
Extract
Plaintiff alleges they engaged in predicate acts of mail fraud and obstruction
of justice in a scheme to defraud RMST and its shareholders via a pattern of
racketeering activity in violation of RICO, 18 U.S.C. § 1962... Title 18 U.S.C. §
1961(1) defines racketeering activity, so far as is pertinent to this case, as

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
'any act which is indictable under... 18 U.S.C. § 1341 (relating to mail fraud),
[and] ... 18 U.S.C. § 1503 (relating to obstruction of justice).'... Plaintiff
claims defendant Geller perjured himself by misrepresenting to this court...
Plaintiff specifically claims that the allegedly false statements made in court
were intended to obstruct or actually did obstruct justice by attempting to
influence the due administration of justice.
Summary
The court recognizes mail fraud and obstruction of justice as predicate acts
under RICO. The passage illustrates how false statements and misuse of
court processes can be part of a scheme to defraud, which aligns with the
proposition that submitting false documents and misusing court processes
could qualify as predicate offenses under RICO.
Allstate Ins. Co. v. Benhamou, 190 F.Supp.3d 631 (S.D. Tex. 2016)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of Texas
Extract
On the RICO claims, Plaintiffs allege repeated violations of the federal mail
fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1341, as the predicate acts... 'Pattern of
racketeering activity' is a defined term and has two components... First,
there must be at least two predicate acts of 'racketeering activity.'...
'Racketeering activity,' is defined by reference to various state and federal
offenses... One of the enumerated crimes is mail fraud. See 18 U.S.C. §
1961(1)(B) (defining any act indictable under 18 U.S.C. § 1341 —the mail
fraud statute—as 'racketeering activity')... The elements of RICO mail fraud
are: (1) a scheme to defraud by means of false or fraudulent representation;
(2) interstate or intrastate use of the mails to execute the scheme; (3) the
use of the mails by the defendant connected with or incident to the scheme;
and (4) actual injury to the plaintiff.
Summary
Elements required to establish a RICO claim based on mail fraud, which
includes a scheme to defraud, use of mail to execute the scheme, and actual
injury. This aligns with the proposition that submitting false documents via
mail could constitute mail fraud, a predicate act under RICO. The passage
also explains the requirement of a pattern of racketeering activity, which
supports the idea that repeated acts of submitting false documents could
establish such a pattern.
US v. Eisenberg, 773 F. Supp. 662 (D. N.J. 1991)
U.S. District Court — District of New Jersey

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Racketeering activity is defined in RICO section 1961(1) to include mail
fraud, wire fraud, obstruction of justice, interstate transportation of money
taken by fraud and any offense involving fraud in the sale of securities. 18
U.S.C. § 1961(1). ... 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d). Racketeering activity is defined in
the RICO statute to include mail fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1341, wire
fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343, obstruction of justice in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1503, interstate transportation of property taken by fraud in
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 2314 and any offense involving fraud in the sale of
securities. See 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1). In addition, 'pattern of racketeering' is
defined as follows: 'at least two acts of racketeering activity, ... the last of
which occurred within ten years ... after the commission of a prior act of
racketeering....' See 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5).
Summary
The RICO statute defines racketeering activity to include mail fraud, wire
fraud, and obstruction of justice, which are relevant to the proposition. The
passage also explains that a pattern of racketeering activity requires at least
two acts of racketeering within a ten-year period. This supports the
proposition that the submission of false documents and misuse of court
processes, if involving mail or wire fraud and obstruction of justice, could
qualify as predicate offenses under RICO.
US v. Bertoli, 854 F. Supp. 975 (D. N.J. 1994)
U.S. District Court — District of New Jersey
Extract
Count One described the pattern of racketeering engaged in by the
Defendants and others, including Eisenberg, as consisting of predicate acts
of mail fraud, wire fraud, interstate transportation of money taken by fraud,
securities fraud and obstruction of justice... Moreover, Defendants concealed
documents at Monarch that were subpoenaed by the grand jury, destroyed
documents relating to the nominee accounts at Euro Bank, filed a false
financial disclosure form with the United States Probation Office,
transferred funds in the Cayman Islands and submitted false affidavits
during the course of this prosecution... Finally, as described previously in
the Facts Section of this opinion, the Racketeering Acts set forth in the
description of the Cover-Up Scheme charged Bertoli with (1) shredding and
removing documents from Monarch and elsewhere, (2) hiding proceeds of
racketeering activity and (3) submitting false and fraudulent affidavits to the
court... 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d). Racketeering activity is defined in the RICO
statute to include mail fraud in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343, wire fraud in
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343, obstruction of justice in violation of 18 U.S.C. §
1503...

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage from "US v. Bertoli" provides a clear example of how activities
such as mail fraud, wire fraud, and obstruction of justice can serve as
predicate acts under RICO. It also illustrates how submitting false
documents and engaging in fraudulent schemes can be part of a pattern of
racketeering activity. This directly supports the proposition that similar
actions in the case of Charles Dustin Myers could qualify as predicate
offenses under RICO if they involved false documents and misuse of court
processes.
Lockhart v. Deluca
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Michigan
Extract
The Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO, was
enacted to curb 'racketeering activity,' which it defines as any act
'chargeable' under several generically described state criminal laws, any act
'indictable' under numerous specific federal criminal provisions, including
mail and wire fraud, and any 'offense' involving bankruptcy or securities
fraud or drug-related activities that is 'punishable' under federal law.” 18
U.S.C. § 1961(1); see also Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex Co., Inc., 473 U.S. 479,
481-82 (1985).
Summary
Definition of "racketeering activity" under RICO, which includes acts
indictable under federal provisions such as mail and wire fraud. This directly
relates to the proposition, as the submission of false documents via mail or
electronic communication could constitute mail or wire fraud, qualifying as
predicate offenses under RICO. The passage also references the need for a
pattern of racketeering activity, which aligns with the repeated acts of
submitting false documents as described in the proposition.
Arizona Premium Finance, Inc. v. Bielli, 77 F.Supp.2d 341 (E.D. N.Y. 1999)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
To establish such a pattern of racketeering activity, 'a plaintiff must plead at
least two predicate acts, show that the acts are related and that they
amount to, or pose a threat of, continuing criminal activity.' H.J. Inc. v.
Northwestern Bell Telephone Co., 492 U.S. 229, 239, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106
L.Ed.2d 195 (1989). RICO is aimed at 'racketeering activity,' which the
statute defines, in relevant part, as certain acts indictable under Federal

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
law, including mail and wire fraud, and violations of the Hobbs Act. 18 U.S.C.
§ 1961(1)(B).
Summary
Requirements for establishing a RICO claim, specifically the need to
demonstrate a pattern of racketeering activity through at least two
predicate acts that are related and pose a threat of continued criminal
activity. The passage also identifies mail and wire fraud as potential
predicate acts under RICO. This directly supports the proposition that the
submission of false documents and misuse of court processes, if involving
mail or wire fraud, could qualify as predicate offenses under RICO.
Mowett v. Jpmorgan Chase Bank, Case No. 15-12612 (E.D. Mich. Mar 31,
2016)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Michigan
Extract
18 U.S.C.§ 1962(c) provides: It shall be unlawful for any person employed by
or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or
indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt. To prevail on a RICO
cause of action, a plaintiff must establish (1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3)
through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity. Moon v. Harrison Piping
Supply, 465 F.3d 719, 723 (6th Cir. 2006) (quoting Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex
Co., Inc., 473 U.S. 479, 496 (1985)). To establish a RICO violation under §
1962(c), a plaintiff must allege that the RICO enterprise engaged in a
'pattern of racketeering activity' consisting of at least two predicate acts of
racketeering activity occurring within a ten-year period. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5).
The alleged predicate acts may consist of offenses 'which are indictable'
under any of a number of federal statutes, including the mail (18 U.S.C. §
1341) and wire fraud statutes (18 U.S.C. § 1343). 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1).
Summary
Predicate acts under RICO can include mail and wire fraud, which are
relevant to the proposition if false documents were transmitted via mail or
electronic communication. The passage also emphasizes the need for a
pattern of activity, which aligns with the proposition's claim of repeated acts
of submitting false documents.
Ketner v. Widell, No. 5:20-cv-6360 (E.D. Pa. Jul 06, 2021)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Pennsylvania

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Although RICO provides several different types of claims for civil liability,
the following elements are common to all RICO causes of action: (1) a
pattern of racketeering activity, (2) a culpable person, (3) an enterprise, (4)
the requisite mental state, and (5) an effect on interstate commerce. See
Agency Holding Corp. v. Malley-Duff & Assocs., Inc., 483 U.S. 143, 154
(1987). ... RICO broadly defines 'racketeering activity' to include the
carrying out one of the many predicate acts listed in the statute 18 U.S.C. §
1961(1). ... RICO requires a plaintiff to show that the defendant committed
at least two predicate acts of racketeering in a ten-year period. 18 U.S.C. §
1961(5). ... A plaintiff can establish a pattern of racketeering by showing
that the predicate acts are related and pose or amount to a threat of
continued criminal activity.
Summary
Elements required to establish a RICO claim, including a pattern of
racketeering activity, which involves committing at least two predicate acts
within a ten-year period. The passage also explains that predicate acts can
include fraud-related offenses, such as mail and wire fraud, which are
relevant to the proposition. The requirement for a pattern of racketeering
activity aligns with the proposition's assertion of repeated acts of submitting
false documents and coordinating their use in court proceedings.
Uselmann v. Pop, 495 F.Supp.3d 528 (E.D. Mich. 2020)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Michigan
Extract
As previously stated, a plaintiff must allege that a RICO enterprise engaged
in a pattern of racketeering activity, which must consist of 'at least two
predicate acts of racketeering activity occurring within a ten-year period.'
Moon, 465 F.3d at 723 (citing 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5) ). RICO defines
'racketeering activity' to include a multitude of offenses that are either
'chargeable' under certain state criminal laws or 'indictable' under specified
federal criminal laws. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1). Both the mail fraud statute, 18
U.S.C. § 1341, and the wire fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1343, are listed as
predicate racketeering offenses under RICO. Id. ; see Moon, 465 F.3d at 723.
Summary
Requirements for establishing a RICO claim, specifically the need for a
pattern of racketeering activity, which includes at least two predicate acts
within a ten-year period. It identifies mail fraud and wire fraud as predicate
offenses under RICO. This supports the proposition that if false documents
were submitted via mail or electronic communication, these actions could

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
qualify as predicate offenses under RICO. The repeated acts of submitting
false documents could establish a pattern of racketeering activity.
18 U.S.C. § 1341 18 U.S.C. § 1341 Frauds and Swindles
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises... for the purpose of executing such
scheme or artifice or attempting so to do, places in any post office or
authorized depository for mail matter, any matter or thing whatever to be
sent or delivered by the Postal Service, or deposits or causes to be deposited
any matter or thing whatever to be sent or delivered by any private or
commercial interstate carrier... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned
not more than 20 years, or both.
Summary
The passage from 18 U.S.C. § 1341 outlines the federal crime of mail fraud,
which involves devising a scheme to defraud and using the postal service or
any private or commercial interstate carrier to execute the scheme. This
directly supports the proposition that submitting false documents via mail as
part of a scheme could constitute mail fraud, a predicate act under RICO.
The passage provides the legal basis for considering the use of mail in
executing fraudulent schemes as a criminal offense, which aligns with the
proposition's claim of using false documents in a scheme to remove an
individual from their home.
18 U.S.C. § 1503 18 U.S.C. § 1503 Influencing Or Injuring Officer Or Juror
Generally
Extract
Whoever corruptly, or by threats or force, or by any threatening letter or
communication, endeavors to influence, intimidate, or impede any grand or
petit juror, or officer in or of any court of the United States, or officer who
may be serving at any examination or other proceeding before any United
States magistrate judge or other committing magistrate, in the discharge of
his duty, or ... corruptly or by threats or force, or by any threatening letter or
communication, influences, obstructs, or impedes, or endeavors to influence,
obstruct, or impede, the due administration of justice, shall be punished as
provided in subsection (b).
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1503 addresses actions that corruptly influence, obstruct, or
impede the due administration of justice. The submission of false documents

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
to a court could be seen as an attempt to corruptly influence or impede the
court's processes, thus potentially qualifying as obstruction of justice under
this statute. This aligns with the proposition that such actions could be
considered predicate offenses under RICO if they form part of a pattern of
racketeering activity.
18 U.S.C. § 1961 18 U.S.C. § 1961 Definitions
Extract
As used in this chapter- 'racketeering activity' means ... (B) any act which is
indictable under any of the following provisions of title 18, United States
Code: ... section 1341 (relating to mail fraud), section 1343 (relating to wire
fraud), ... section 1503 (relating to obstruction of justice), ... 'pattern of
racketeering activity' requires at least two acts of racketeering activity, one
of which occurred after the effective date of this chapter and the last of
which occurred within ten years (excluding any period of imprisonment)
after the commission of a prior act of racketeering activity;
Summary
The passage defines "racketeering activity" to include acts indictable under
sections 1341 (mail fraud), 1343 (wire fraud), and 1503 (obstruction of
justice) of Title 18, U.S. Code. These are the same sections mentioned in the
proposition as potential predicate acts under RICO. Additionally, the passage
explains that a "pattern of racketeering activity" requires at least two acts of
racketeering activity, which aligns with the proposition's assertion of
repeated acts of submitting false documents. This supports the argument
that the described actions could qualify as a pattern of racketeering activity
under RICO.
18 U.S.C. § 1343 18 U.S.C. § 1343 Fraud By Wire, Radio, Or Television
Extract
Whoever, having devised or intending to devise any scheme or artifice to
defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises, transmits or causes to be
transmitted by means of wire, radio, or television communication in
interstate or foreign commerce, any writings, signs, signals, pictures, or
sounds for the purpose of executing such scheme or artifice, shall be fined
under this title or imprisoned not more than 20 years, or both.
Summary
The passage from 18 U.S.C. § 1343 outlines the federal crime of wire fraud,
which involves transmitting or causing to be transmitted any form of
communication in interstate or foreign commerce as part of a scheme to

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
defraud. This directly supports the proposition that if the false documents
were transmitted via electronic communication (such as email or other wire
communications), it could constitute wire fraud, a predicate act under RICO.
The context of the passage being part of the federal criminal code means it
is applicable to any case involving such fraudulent schemes across state
lines, which aligns with the scenario described in the proposition.
18 U.S.C. § 1962 18 U.S.C. § 1962 Prohibited Activities
Extract
It shall be unlawful for any person through a pattern of racketeering activity
or through collection of an unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or
indirectly, any interest in or control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or
the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce.
Summary
18 U.S.C. § 1962 outlines unlawful activities related to racketeering.
Specifically, it prohibits acquiring or maintaining control of an enterprise
through a pattern of racketeering activity. The submission of false
documents to courts, if part of a scheme to control or affect an enterprise,
could fall under this statute. The passage supports the proposition by
highlighting that such activities, if affecting interstate commerce, are
prohibited under RICO.
18 U.S.C. § 1964 18 U.S.C. § 1964 Civil Remedies
Extract
Any person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and
the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee...
Summary
Individuals who are injured in their business or property due to a violation of
section 1962 (RICO) can seek civil remedies, including treble damages and
attorney's fees. This supports the proposition that the submission of false
documents and misuse of court processes, if part of a RICO violation, could
lead to civil liability and significant financial recovery for the injured party.
Mail and Wire Fraud

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Michael Bednarczyk - 2022-07-01
Extract
2–44 (11th Cir. 2011) (affirming RICO conviction based on mail and wire
fraud); United States v. Goldin Indus., Inc., 219 F.3d 1271, 1274 (11th Cir.
2000) (defining racketeering activity as the commission of certain federal
crimes, including mail fraud, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1341);
&lt;I&gt;Zichettello&lt;/I&gt;, 208 F.3d at 79 (affirming multi-defendant
convictions on counts including: (i) mail fraud in connection with monthly
bribes related to conspiracy to violate RICO and (ii) wire fraud in connection
with campaign finance scheme).
Summary
The passage provides examples of RICO convictions that were affirmed
based on predicate acts of mail and wire fraud. It highlights that
racketeering activity under RICO includes federal crimes such as mail fraud
(18 U.S.C. § 1341) and wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343). This supports the
proposition that the submission of false documents via mail or electronic
communication could qualify as predicate offenses under RICO.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bourgeois, Richard L., Jr. - 2000-03-22
Extract
RICO, it reasoned, provides an additional sanction for patterns of violations
of statutes such as the mail fraud statute... The predicate acts may also be
acts indictable under federal law, including... wire fraud; mail fraud...
obstruction of justice...
Summary
RICO can be applied to patterns of violations involving mail fraud, wire
fraud, and obstruction of justice. The passage explicitly mentions these acts
as predicate offenses under RICO, which aligns with the proposition that the
submission of false documents and misuse of court processes could qualify
as such offenses if they involved mail or electronic communication or
obstructed justice.
Mail and wire fraud.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Newman, Samuel A. - 2000-03-22

=== PAGE 18 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
See 18 U.S.C. [subsections] 1961-1964 (1994 and Supp. IV 1998)
(prohibiting receipt of income through 'racketeering activity,' defined as
including any act indictable under [sections] 1341 or [sections] 1343); see
also United States v. Brown, 79 F.3d 1550, 1559 n.16 (11th Cir. 1996)
(declaring proof of violation of mail fraud statute can be predicate act for
purposes of civil RICO actions).
Summary
The federal statutes 18 U.S.C. §§ 1961-1964 define racketeering activity to
include acts indictable under the mail and wire fraud statutes (§§ 1341 and
1343). The case United States v. Brown further supports that a violation of
the mail fraud statute can serve as a predicate act for civil RICO actions.
This aligns with the proposition that submitting false documents via mail or
electronic communication could qualify as predicate offenses under RICO.
Chapter 4. Elements of Cause of Action
Civil RICO: A Definitive Guide. Fifth Edition - American Bar
Association - Gregory P. Joseph
Extract
Mail and wire fraud are the two most frequently alleged predicate acts. The
mail fraud statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1341, prohibits any person from knowingly
causing the use of the mails—or, since 1994, private carrier services like
FedEx—'for the purpose of executing' any 'scheme or artifice to defraud.'
The actual violation is the mailing, which must relate to the underlying
fraudulent scheme... The courts have determined that, in measuring the
duration of misconduct for purposes of evaluating continuity, they will look
at the character of each alleged act to determine whether, in context, it is
wrongful. Only wrongful acts are considered in measuring the duration of
any alleged pattern.
Summary
Mail and wire fraud are recognized as predicate acts under RICO. The
passage explains that the use of mail or wire communications in furtherance
of a fraudulent scheme constitutes a violation. This directly supports the
proposition that submitting false documents via mail or electronic
communication could qualify as predicate offenses under RICO. Additionally,
the passage discusses the importance of evaluating the character and
continuity of wrongful acts, which aligns with the proposition's assertion of a
pattern of racketeering activity.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.

=== PAGE 19 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Phillips, Eleanor T. - 2015-09-22
Extract
However, criminal RICO has been increasingly used to combat health care
fraud, often using mail fraud, wire fraud, insurance fraud, and false claims
as common predicate offenses... The Court in Sedima explained: 'As defined
in the statute, racketeering activity consists not of acts for which the
defendant has been convicted, but of acts for which he could be.' 473 U.S. at
488. Under [section] 1961(1), the predicate acts need only be 'chargeable'
or 'indictable' under state or federal law. 18 U.S.C. [section] 1961(1).
Summary
RICO can be applied to a variety of fraudulent activities, including mail and
wire fraud, which are relevant to the proposition. The passage explains that
predicate acts under RICO do not require a conviction but must be
chargeable or indictable under state or federal law. This supports the idea
that the submission of false documents, if done through mail or electronic
communication, could qualify as predicate offenses under RICO.
MAIL AND WIRE FRAUD
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
2021-07-01
Extract
The federal mail2 and wire3 fraud statutes are powerful tools for
prosecutors that apply to a wide range of conduct.4 ... Mail and wire fraud
are predicate felonies under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (“RICO”) and are specified as ... 16 In addition, mail and
wire fraud charges can be used in conjunction with other offenses or more
specific fraud offenses, such as insider trading or bank fraud.17
Summary
Mail and wire fraud statutes are versatile tools for addressing a wide range
of fraudulent activities. These statutes are explicitly recognized as predicate
offenses under RICO, which means they can be used to establish a pattern of
racketeering activity. The passage also highlights that these charges can be
combined with other offenses, reinforcing their applicability in complex
schemes involving multiple fraudulent acts.
Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy
The Brief - American Bar Association - 2024-01-01

=== PAGE 20 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
A violation of § 1962(c), the section on which Sedima relies, requires (1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity. The plaintiff must allege each of the elements to state a claim. They
are all equally essential components, and the complaint will fail if any one of
them is not adequately pleaded. In particular, RICO claims based on mail or
wire fraud must comport with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 9(b)’s
requirement that allegations involving fraud be pleaded with particularity. ...
RICO’s broad definition of racketeering activity and the act’s reference to
mail and wire fraud as predicate offenses begs the question: Why not RICO?
That is, should the plaintiff consider adding a RICO count to an existing
state cause of action? Moreover, since an action under RICO arises under
federal law, a plaintiff can elect to have access to federal court.
Summary
To establish a RICO claim under § 1962(c), a plaintiff must demonstrate
conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, which
includes predicate acts like mail and wire fraud. The passage emphasizes
the importance of pleading these elements with particularity, especially
when fraud is involved. The broad definition of racketeering activity under
RICO, including mail and wire fraud, supports the proposition that the
submission of false documents and misuse of court processes could qualify
as predicate offenses under RICO.
H. Rept. 104-22 - Criminal Alien Deportation Improvements Act of 1995,
1995-02-06
Congressional Committee Reports
Extract
the act indictable under section 1028 was committed for the purpose of
financial gain, section 1029 (relating to fraud and related activity in
connection with access devices), section 1084 (relating to the transmission
of gambling information), section 1341 (relating to mail fraud), section 1343
(relating to wire fraud), section 1344 (relating to financial institution fraud),
sections 1461–1465 (relating to obscene matter), section 1503 (relating to
obstruction of justice), section 1510 (relating to obstruction of criminal
investigations), section 1511 (relating to the obstruction of State or local law
enforcement), section 1512 (relating to tampering with a witness, victim, or
an informant), section 1513 (relating to retaliating against a witness, victim,
or an informant)
Summary
The passage lists various offenses, including mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341),
wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343), and obstruction of justice (18 U.S.C. § 1503),

=== PAGE 21 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
as predicate acts under the RICO statute. These offenses are directly
relevant to the proposition, as they could be used to establish a pattern of
racketeering activity if the false documents were transmitted via mail or
electronic communication, or if the actions obstructed justice.
H. Rept. 109-74 - Gang Deterrence and Community Protection Act of 2005,
2005-05-05
Congressional Committee Reports
Extract
section 1341 (relating to mail fraud), section 1343 (relating to wire fraud),
section 1503 (relating to obstruction of justice)
Summary
The passage lists specific federal statutes, including mail fraud (18 U.S.C. §
1341), wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343), and obstruction of justice (18 U.S.C. §
1503), which are recognized as predicate offenses under the RICO Act.
These statutes are directly relevant to the proposition as they provide the
legal basis for considering the submission of false documents and misuse of
court processes as part of a racketeering scheme.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
Among other things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is
indictable under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an
expansive range of violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18
U.S.C. ' 1951 (extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud);
18 U.S.C. ' 1831 (economic espionage); 18 U.S.C. ' 1832 (theft of trade
secrets); 18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act); 18 U.S.C. ' 1956, 1957 (money
laundering); and 18 U.S.C. ' 2318-2320 (copyright infringement). Mail and
wire fraud are the most common predicate acts.
Summary
Mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341) and wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343) are explicitly
listed as predicate acts under RICO. The proposition involves the submission
of false documents, which, if transmitted via mail or electronic
communication, could constitute mail or wire fraud. The passage supports
the idea that these actions could be considered part of a pattern of
racketeering activity under RICO.

=== PAGE 22 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
RICO: A Primer
Extract
Among other things, 'racketeering activities' include 'any act which is
indictable under' a list of federal criminal statutes. The list covers an
expansive range of violations, for example, violations of the Hobbs Act, 18
U.S.C. ' 1951 (extortion); 18 U.S.C. ' 1341 (mail fraud) and 1343 (wire fraud);
18 U.S.C. ' 1831 (economic espionage); 18 U.S.C. ' 1832 (theft of trade
secrets); 18 U.S.C. ' 1952 (Travel Act); 18 U.S.C. ' 1956, 1957 (money
laundering); and 18 U.S.C. ' 2318-2320 (copyright infringement). Mail and
wire fraud are the most common predicate acts.
Summary
Mail fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1341) and wire fraud (18 U.S.C. § 1343) are explicitly
listed as predicate acts under RICO. The passage confirms that these types
of fraud are common predicate acts, which supports the proposition that the
submission of false documents via mail or electronic communication could
qualify as predicate offenses under RICO.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of June 14, 2025. View full answer on vLex

