FILE: RESEARCH\vLex-Vincent-What-are-the-elements-of-RICO--Racketeer-Influenced-and-Corrupt-Organizations-Act--that-must-be-sati-1.pdf
PAGES: 40
OCR_MODE: auto
DPI: 300
================================================================================

=== PAGE 1 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Question
What are the elements of RICO (Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act) that must be satisfied for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil
RICO claim?
Answer (U.S. Federal)
Short response
To prevail in a civil RICO claim, a plaintiff must establish: (1) conduct of an
enterprise, (2) through a pattern of racketeering activity, (3) causing injury
to the plaintiff's business or property, and (4) a causal connection between
the RICO violation and the injury.
Summary
A civil RICO claim under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act requires several essential elements to be established by
the plaintiff. At its core, a plaintiff must demonstrate that the defendant,
through the commission of at least two acts constituting a "pattern of
racketeering activity," has conducted or participated in the affairs of an
"enterprise" that affects interstate or foreign commerce, and that this
conduct has proximately caused an injury to the plaintiff's business or
property. The statutory framework for civil RICO claims is established in 18
U.S.C. § 1962, which prohibits various forms of racketeering activities, and 
18 U.S.C. § 1964(c), which provides the private right of action for civil
plaintiffs.
These elements contain important sub-elements and nuances that have been
further developed through case law. For instance, the "pattern of
racketeering activity" requires both "relationship" and "continuity" between
the predicate acts. The "enterprise" must have a structure distinct from the
pattern of racketeering activity itself. Additionally, the plaintiff must
demonstrate standing by establishing concrete financial injury and showing
that the RICO violation proximately caused this injury. Courts have
consistently interpreted these requirements stringently, recognizing that
RICO was designed to combat organized crime rather than to transform
ordinary business disputes into federal cases with treble damages.
Background and Relevant Law
Statutory Framework
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) provides a
framework for both criminal prosecution and civil remedies against

=== PAGE 2 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
organized criminal activity. The essential statutory provisions for civil RICO
claims are found in 18 U.S.C. §§ 1961, 1962, and 1964.
Prohibited Activities - 18 U.S.C. § 1962
Section 1962 outlines the prohibited activities under RICO:
"It shall be unlawful for any person who has received any income derived,
directly or indirectly, from a pattern of racketeering activity or through
collection of an unlawful debt... to use or invest, directly or indirectly, any
part of such income, or the proceeds of such income, in acquisition of any
interest in, or the establishment or operation of, any enterprise which is
engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce..." 18 U.S.C. § 1962(a)
"It shall be unlawful for any person through a pattern of racketeering
activity or through collection of an unlawful debt to acquire or maintain,
directly or indirectly, any interest in or control of any enterprise which is
engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce..." 18 U.S.C. § 1962(b)
"It shall be unlawful for any person employed by or associated with any
enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign
commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of
such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity or
collection of unlawful debt..." 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c)
"It shall be unlawful for any person to conspire to violate any of the
provisions of subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section." 18 U.S.C. § 1962(d)
Definitions - 18 U.S.C. § 1961
Section 1961 provides crucial definitions for terms used in RICO:
"'[R]acketeering activity' means (A) any act or threat involving murder,
kidnapping, gambling, arson, robbery, bribery, extortion, dealing in obscene
matter, or dealing in a controlled substance or listed chemical (as defined in
section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act), which is chargeable under
State law and punishable by imprisonment for more than one year; ..." 18
U.S.C. § 1961(1)
"'[P]attern of racketeering activity' requires at least two acts of racketeering
activity, one of which occurred after the effective date of this chapter and
the last of which occurred within ten years (excluding any period of
imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act of racketeering activity;" 
18 U.S.C. § 1961(5)
"'[E]nterprise' includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals associated in fact
although not a legal entity;" 18 U.S.C. § 1961(4)

=== PAGE 3 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Civil Remedies - 18 U.S.C. § 1964
Section 1964 establishes the civil remedies available under RICO:
"Any person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and
the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee..." 18 U.S.C. §
1964(c)
Case Law Interpretation of RICO Elements
Courts have consistently identified several essential elements that must be
satisfied for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim. While there are slight
variations in how courts articulate these elements, they generally align with
the statutory framework and can be synthesized into a coherent set of
requirements.
Basic Elements of a Civil RICO Claim
The foundation of a civil RICO claim requires proving a violation of the
substantive RICO statute and injury resulting from that violation. In Kerwick
v. Pullman & Comley LLC, 3:24-CV-00427 (KAD) (D. Conn. Dec 20, 2024), the
court articulated this as:
"A private cause of action under RICO requires that the plaintiff allege: '(1)
the defendant's violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962, (2) an injury to the plaintiff's
business or property, and (3) causation of the injury by the defendant's
violation.'"
Similarly, in Portionpac Chemical Corp. v. Sanitech Systems, 217 F.Supp.2d
1238 (M.D. Fla. 2002), the court identified the elements as: "(1) a violation
of section 1962; (2) injury to business or property; and (3) that the violation
caused the injury."
To establish a violation of section 1962, particularly subsection (c) which is
most commonly invoked, courts have identified specific requirements. In 
Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex Co., 473 U.S. 479, 496 (1985), as cited in 
Chambers v. King Buick GMC, LLC, 43 F. Supp. 3d 575 (D. Md. 2014), the
Supreme Court identified these elements as "(1) conduct; (2) of an
enterprise; (3) through a pattern; (4) of racketeering."
Detailed Elements of a Civil RICO Claim
1. Conduct by a Person
The first element requires the plaintiff to identify a "person" who engaged in
the prohibited conduct. The Supreme Court has elaborated on the "conduct"
requirement in Reves v. Ernst Young, 507 U.S. 170, 113 S.Ct. 1163, 122
L.Ed.2d 525 (1993):

=== PAGE 4 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
"In order to 'participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such
enterprise's affairs,' one must have some part in directing those affairs...
The 'operation or management' test expresses this requirement in a
formulation that is easy to apply."
This "operation or management" test requires that the defendant had some
role in directing the enterprise's affairs, although not necessarily a formal
position or primary responsibility.
2. Enterprise
The second element requires the existence of an "enterprise" that is
engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce.
In Lockhart v. Deluca, the court outlined the sub-elements necessary to
plead an enterprise:
"1) an ongoing organization with some sort of framework or superstructure
for making and carrying out decisions; 2) that the members of the enterprise
functioned as a continuing unit with established duties; and 3) that the
enterprise was separate and distinct from the pattern of racketeering
activity in which it engaged."
This third sub-element—the requirement that the enterprise be separate
from the pattern of racketeering activity—is particularly important as
emphasized in Gross v. Waywell, 628 F.Supp.2d 475 (S.D. N.Y. 2009).
Additionally, most RICO claims require a distinction between the "person"
and the "enterprise." As noted in Defending Civil RICO Claims: A Defense
Plan Should Be In Every Business's Arsenal:
"For most RICO claims, the plaintiff also must plead that the alleged 'person'
and 'enterprise,' as defined in RICO, are distinct. While often technical, this
'distinctiveness' requirement provides that a corporation generally will not
be liable for operating an 'enterprise' consisting of itself and its officers or
employees."
3. Pattern of Racketeering Activity
The third element requires a "pattern of racketeering activity." The statutory
definition in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5) merely requires "at least two acts of
racketeering activity" within a ten-year period. However, the Supreme Court
has elaborated on this requirement in H.J. Inc v. Northwestern Bell
Telephone Company, 492 U.S. 229, 109 S.Ct. 2893, 106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989):
"RICO's legislative history, however, establishes that Congress intended that
to prove a 'pattern of racketeering activity' a plaintiff or prosecutor must
show both 'relationship' and 'continuity'—that the racketeering predicates
are related, and that they either constitute or threaten long-term criminal
activity."
The court further explained that "sporadic or isolated wrongdoing does not
suffice" and that the activities "must be long-term." This means that the

=== PAGE 5 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
predicate acts must be related to each other and must demonstrate either a
continued criminal activity or the threat of such activity.
4. Racketeering Activity (Predicate Acts)
The fourth element requires the commission of specific "predicate acts" that
constitute "racketeering activity" as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1). These
include various state and federal crimes such as murder, kidnapping,
gambling, arson, robbery, bribery, extortion, and dealing in controlled
substances, as well as specific federal offenses like mail fraud and wire
fraud.
In Green Leaf Nursery v. E.I. Dupont De Nemours, 341 F.3d 1292 (11th Cir.
2003), the court noted:
"Plaintiffs allege that mail fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1341; wire fraud,
in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343; obstruction of justice, in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1503; and tampering with witnesses, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §
1512, constitute relevant predicate offenses for their civil RICO action."
Importantly, the Supreme Court clarified in Bridge v. Phoenix Bond & Indem.
Co., 128 S.Ct. 2131, 170 L.Ed.2d 1012, 553 U.S. 639 (2008) that for RICO
claims predicated on mail fraud, a plaintiff need not show that it relied on
the defendant's alleged misrepresentations, either as an element of the
claim or as a prerequisite for establishing proximate causation.
5. Injury to Business or Property
The fifth element requires the plaintiff to demonstrate an injury to their
"business or property." As noted in Defending Civil RICO Claims: A Defense
Plan Should Be In Every Business's Arsenal:
"To bring a civil RICO claim, a plaintiff must demonstrate that their business
or property was injured as a result of a RICO violation. In other words, there
must be some sort of concrete financial loss directly flowing from the
purported violation to support a RICO claim. Thus, if a plaintiff does not
have a concrete financial loss, then the RICO claim must be dismissed.
Asserting personal injuries, such as emotion distress, is insufficient."
This requirement is derived directly from the statutory language in 18 U.S.C.
§ 1964(c), which provides a private right of action for "[a]ny person injured
in his business or property by reason of a violation of section 1962 of this
chapter."
6. Causation
The sixth element requires a causal connection between the RICO violation
and the injury to the plaintiff's business or property. This is commonly
referred to as the "by reason of" requirement, as it stems from the statutory
language in 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c).

=== PAGE 6 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
In Canyon County v. Syngenta Seeds, Inc., 519 F.3d 969 (9th Cir. 2008), the
court explained:
"To have standing under § 1964(c), a civil RICO plaintiff must show: (1) that
his alleged harm qualifies as injury to his business or property; and (2) that
his harm was 'by reason of' the RICO violation, which requires the plaintiff
to establish proximate causation."
It should be noted that this case was abrogated by Ketayi v. Health
Enrollment Grp., Corp., 516 F.Supp.3d 1092 (S.D. Cal. 2021). However, the
specific articulation of these two standing requirements remains consistent
with other authoritative interpretations of the civil RICO statute.
Similarly, in Chambers v. King Buick GMC, LLC, 43 F. Supp. 3d 575 (D. Md.
2014), the court noted:
"Plaintiff must additionally plead proximate cause, that is she was injured in
her business or property 'by reason of' the RICO violation."
7. Interstate Commerce
The seventh element requires a nexus to interstate commerce. As noted in 
RICO: A Primer:
"Notably, there must be some nexus to interstate or foreign commerce—it is
a jurisdictional element of a civil RICO claim. Thus, predicate acts will often
occur in several States."
This requirement stems from the statutory language in 18 U.S.C. § 1962,
which specifies that the enterprise must be "engaged in, or the activities of
which affect, interstate or foreign commerce."
Analysis
Core Requirements for a Civil RICO Claim
Based on the statutory provisions and case law interpretations, the essential
elements that must be satisfied for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim
can be synthesized as follows:
Conduct by a Person: The defendant must be a "person" who has
engaged in conduct that violates 18 U.S.C. § 1962. Under the "operation
or management" test established in Reves v. Ernst Young, 507 U.S. 170
(1993), the person must have had some part in directing the
enterprise's affairs.
Enterprise: There must be an "enterprise" that is engaged in, or the
activities of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce. The
enterprise must have: (a) an ongoing organizational structure, (b)
members who function as a continuing unit with established duties, and
(c) an existence separate and distinct from the pattern of racketeering
activity.
1. 
2. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Pattern of Racketeering Activity: The defendant must have engaged
in a "pattern of racketeering activity," which requires at least two
predicate acts within a ten-year period. These acts must demonstrate
both "relationship" and "continuity" as established in H.J. Inc v.
Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, 492 U.S. 229 (1989).
Racketeering Activity (Predicate Acts): The defendant must have
committed specific "predicate acts" that constitute "racketeering
activity" as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1), such as mail fraud, wire
fraud, or other specified state and federal crimes.
Injury to Business or Property: The plaintiff must have suffered an
injury to their "business or property," which requires a concrete
financial loss directly flowing from the RICO violation.
Causation: The plaintiff must establish that their injury was "by reason
of" the RICO violation, which requires proving proximate causation
between the violation and the injury.
Interstate Commerce: The enterprise must be engaged in, or its
activities must affect, interstate or foreign commerce.
Variations in Articulating the Elements
It's worth noting that different courts and secondary sources have
articulated these elements in slightly different ways, sometimes combining
certain elements or emphasizing particular aspects of the requirements. For
example:
In Living Designs, Inc. v. E.I. Dupont De Nemours and Co., 431 F.3d 353
(9th Cir. 2005), the court identified five elements: "(1) conduct (2) of an
enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity (known as
'predicate acts') (5) causing injury to plaintiff's 'business or property.'"
In P & P MARKETING, INC. v. Ditton, 746 F. Supp. 1354 (N.D. Ill.
1990), the court identified five elements: "(1) a 'person'; (2) an
'enterprise' engaged in or affecting interstate commerce; (3)
'racketeering activity' which (4) occurred in a 'pattern' and (5) an
injury."
In Sheftelman v. Jones, 605 F.Supp. 549 (N.D. Ga. 1984), the court
identified seven elements: "(1) that the defendant (2) through the
commission of two or more acts (3) constituting a 'pattern' (4) of
'racketeering activity' (5) directly or indirectly invests in, or maintains
an interest in, or participates in (6) an 'enterprise' (7) the activities of
which affect interstate or foreign commerce."
Despite these variations, the underlying statutory requirements remain the
same, and the core elements consistently reflect the need to demonstrate a
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962 and an injury to business or property caused by
that violation.
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
• 
• 
• 

=== PAGE 8 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Sub-elements and Additional Requirements
Person-Enterprise Distinctiveness
For claims under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), there is an additional requirement that
the "person" and the "enterprise" must be distinct entities. As noted in 
Defending Civil RICO Claims: A Defense Plan Should Be In Every Business's
Arsenal:
"For most RICO claims, the plaintiff also must plead that the alleged 'person'
and 'enterprise,' as defined in RICO, are distinct. While often technical, this
'distinctiveness' requirement provides that a corporation generally will not
be liable for operating an 'enterprise' consisting of itself and its officers or
employees."
This means that a corporation cannot be both the "person" and the
"enterprise" under § 1962(c), although it can be part of an enterprise.
Relationship and Continuity in the Pattern Requirement
The Supreme Court's interpretation of the "pattern" requirement in H.J. Inc
v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, 492 U.S. 229 (1989) introduces
important sub-elements:
"RICO's legislative history, however, establishes that Congress intended that
to prove a 'pattern of racketeering activity' a plaintiff or prosecutor must
show both 'relationship' and 'continuity'—that the racketeering predicates
are related, and that they either constitute or threaten long-term criminal
activity."
This means that the predicate acts must be related to each other (not
isolated instances) and must demonstrate a continued or threatened
continued criminal activity. Sporadic or isolated wrongdoing does not
suffice.
Domestic Injury for Foreign Plaintiffs
In cases involving foreign plaintiffs, there is an additional requirement that
the plaintiff must demonstrate a "domestic injury," as noted in Yegiazaryan v.
Smagin : RICO Becomes A Tool For Foreign Plaintiffs To Collect On
Arbitration Awards In The U.S.:
"To bring a RICO private action, a plaintiff must suffer harm to their
business or property due to a substantive violation of RICO. The Supreme
Court held in RJR Nabisco that a private plaintiff's harm must be a 'domestic
injury.'"
This requirement ensures that RICO's civil remedies are focused on
domestic injuries rather than being extended to address foreign harms.

=== PAGE 9 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Restrictions and Limitations on Civil RICO Claims
Statute of Limitations
Civil RICO claims are subject to a four-year statute of limitations, as noted in 
Defending Civil RICO Claims: A Defense Plan Should Be In Every Business's
Arsenal:
"RICO has a four-year statute of limitations, which is triggered by the date a
plaintiff discovered or should have discovered the purported criminal
activity. Therefore, if four years has passed since that date, the claim must
be dismissed."
This time limitation is an important procedural hurdle that plaintiffs must
overcome.
Pleading Requirements for Fraud-Based Claims
Many civil RICO claims are based on predicate acts involving fraud, such as
mail fraud or wire fraud. These claims are subject to heightened pleading
standards under Rule 9 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, as noted in 
SCOTUS Clarified RICO's Domestic Injury Requirement, Did Not Create
New Civil Right Of Action For Enforcing Arbitration Awards:
"When claims are fraud-based (most civil RICO theories are), the heightened
specificity requirements of Rule 9 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
compound each of these burdens."
This means that plaintiffs must plead the circumstances of fraud with
particularity, which adds an additional layer of difficulty to establishing a
RICO claim.
Exceptions and Caveats
Exception for Securities Fraud
The civil RICO statute contains an important exception for securities fraud,
as specified in 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c):
"Any person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and
the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee, except that no
person may rely upon any conduct that would have been actionable as fraud
in the purchase or sale of securities to establish a violation of section 1962."
This exception prevents plaintiffs from using securities fraud as a predicate
act for a RICO claim, which was added by amendment in 1995 to prevent the
overlap of RICO with securities laws.

=== PAGE 10 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Variation in Requirements Across Jurisdictions
While the basic elements of a civil RICO claim are consistent across federal
jurisdictions, there can be nuances and variations in how different circuits
interpret certain requirements. For instance, some circuits may have more
stringent interpretations of what constitutes a "pattern" or an "enterprise,"
or may apply different standards for establishing proximate causation.
Standing Requirements May Limit Who Can Bring a Claim
Not every person affected by racketeering activity has standing to bring a
civil RICO claim. As emphasized in Canyon County v. Syngenta Seeds, Inc.,
519 F.3d 969 (9th Cir. 2008), a plaintiff must show "that his alleged harm
qualifies as injury to his business or property" and "that his harm was 'by
reason of' the RICO violation, which requires the plaintiff to establish
proximate causation." This case was abrogated by Ketayi v. Health
Enrollment Grp., Corp., 516 F.Supp.3d 1092 (S.D. Cal. 2021), but the basic
standing requirements remain valid across jurisdictions.
Conclusion
To prevail in a civil RICO claim, a plaintiff must satisfy several stringent
requirements derived from the statutory provisions and judicial
interpretations. At its core, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the
defendant, through the commission of at least two predicate acts
constituting a pattern of racketeering activity, has conducted or participated
in the affairs of an enterprise that affects interstate commerce, and that this
conduct has proximately caused an injury to the plaintiff's business or
property.
The elements of a civil RICO claim can be summarized as follows:
Conduct by a Person: The defendant must be a "person" who has
engaged in conduct that violates 18 U.S.C. § 1962, typically by having
some part in directing the enterprise's affairs under the "operation or
management" test.
Enterprise: There must be an "enterprise" with an organizational
structure, whose members function as a continuing unit, and which has
an existence separate from the pattern of racketeering activity.
Pattern of Racketeering Activity: The defendant must have engaged
in a "pattern of racketeering activity," requiring at least two predicate
acts within ten years that demonstrate both "relationship" and
"continuity."
Racketeering Activity (Predicate Acts): The defendant must have
committed specific "predicate acts" that constitute "racketeering
activity" as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1).
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 

=== PAGE 11 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Injury to Business or Property: The plaintiff must have suffered a
concrete financial loss to their business or property.
Causation: The plaintiff must establish proximate causation between
the RICO violation and their injury.
Interstate Commerce: The enterprise must be engaged in, or its
activities must affect, interstate commerce.
Additionally, depending on the specific subsection of § 1962 being invoked
and the nature of the claim, there may be additional requirements, such as
the distinction between the "person" and the "enterprise" for § 1962(c)
claims, or the demonstration of a "domestic injury" for foreign plaintiffs.
These stringent requirements reflect Congress's intent to create a powerful
tool for combating organized crime without allowing RICO to become a
means of federalizing ordinary business disputes or common law fraud
cases. As courts have consistently recognized, RICO was designed to
address long-term criminal activity, not isolated or sporadic wrongdoing.
Legal Authorities
Ray v. Spirit Airlines, Inc., 836 F.3d 1340 (11th Cir. 2016)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Eleventh Circuit
Extract
18 U.S.C. § 1964(c). “To recover, a civil plaintiff must establish that a
defendant (1) operated or managed (2) an enterprise (3) through a pattern
(4) of racketeering activity that included at least two racketeering acts.”
Ray, 767 F.3d at 1224. A civil plaintiff must also show “(1) the requisite
injury to ‘business or property,’ and (2) that such injury was ‘by reason of’
the substantive RICO violation.” Williams v. Mohawk Indus., Inc., 465 F.3d
1277, 1282–83 (11th Cir. 2006), abrogated on other grounds as recognized
in Simpson, 744 F.3d at 714–15.
Summary
Clear outline of the elements required for a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C.
§ 1964(c). It specifies that a plaintiff must demonstrate that the defendant
operated or managed an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering
activity, which must include at least two racketeering acts. Additionally, the
plaintiff must show an injury to business or property caused by the RICO
violation. This information is directly relevant to understanding the elements
necessary for a civil RICO claim.
Green Leaf Nursery v. E.I. Dupont De Nemours, 341 F.3d 1292 (11th Cir.
2003)
5. 
6. 
7. 

=== PAGE 12 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
U.S. Court of Appeals — Eleventh Circuit
Extract
Plaintiffs in a civil RICO action must identify and prove a pattern of
racketeering activity, which is defined as two predicate acts of racketeering
activity within a ten-year period. 18 U.S.C. § 1961(5). Plaintiffs allege that
mail fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1341; wire fraud, in violation of 18
U.S.C. § 1343; obstruction of justice, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1503; and
tampering with witnesses, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1512, constitute
relevant predicate offenses for their civil RICO action. The district court
found that Plaintiffs' mail and wire fraud claims failed because Plaintiffs
were unable to establish reasonable reliance, which is an essential element
of mail and wire fraud predicates in the civil RICO context.
Summary
For a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim, they must prove a pattern of
racketeering activity, which involves at least two predicate acts of
racketeering within a ten-year period. The passage also highlights that for
mail and wire fraud predicates, plaintiffs must establish reasonable reliance,
which is an essential element in the civil RICO context. This information is
generally applicable to civil RICO claims under federal law.
P &amp; P MARKETING, INC. v. Ditton, 746 F. Supp. 1354 (N.D. Ill. 1990)
U.S. District Court — Northern District of Illinois
Extract
Regardless of which subsection of Section 1962 defendants are alleged to
have violated, five elements are common and necessary to every civil RICO
claim. These essential elements are: (1) a 'person'; (2) an 'enterprise'
engaged in or affecting interstate commerce; (3) 'racketeering activity'
which (4) occurred in a 'pattern' and (5) an injury. Id. at 440; 18 USC §
1962(a)-(d).
Summary
The passage clearly outlines the five essential elements required for a civil
RICO claim under U.S. Federal law. These elements are: (1) a "person"; (2)
an "enterprise" engaged in or affecting interstate commerce; (3)
"racketeering activity"; (4) a "pattern" of such activity; and (5) an injury. This
information is directly relevant to understanding what a plaintiff must
establish to prevail in a civil RICO claim.
Living Designs, Inc. v. E.I. Dupont De Nemours and Co., 431 F.3d 353 (9th
Cir. 2005)

=== PAGE 13 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
U.S. Court of Appeals — Ninth Circuit
Extract
The elements of a civil RICO claim are as follows: '(1) conduct (2) of an
enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity (known as
`predicate acts') (5) causing injury to plaintiff's `business or property.'
Summary
The passage clearly outlines the five essential elements that must be
satisfied for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim. These elements are
conduct, enterprise, pattern, racketeering activity, and injury to business or
property. This information is derived from a federal appellate court decision,
which provides authoritative guidance on the requirements for a civil RICO
claim.
Roma Const. Co. v. aRusso, 96 F.3d 566 (1st Cir. 1996)
U.S. Court of Appeals — First Circuit
Extract
The Supreme Court has emphasized the broad reach of RICO's language: 'If
the defendant engages in a pattern of racketeering activity ... and the
racketeering activities injure the plaintiff in his business or property, the
plaintiff has a claim under § 1964(c). There is no room in the statutory
language for an additional ... requirement.' Sedima, 473 U.S. at 495, 105
S.Ct. at 3284.
Summary
The Supreme Court has clarified the elements necessary for a civil RICO
claim. Specifically, the defendant must engage in a pattern of racketeering
activity, and these activities must injure the plaintiff in their business or
property. The passage emphasizes that there are no additional requirements
beyond these elements as per the statutory language.
Gross v. Waywell, 628 F.Supp.2d 475 (S.D. N.Y. 2009)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of New York
Extract
This statutory design manifests in several provisions of the legislation that
reflect both qualitative and quantitative measures, elements of dimensions
and degrees that, working as a whole, operate to confine the range of
RICO's remedies. The activities about which Congress was concerned must

=== PAGE 14 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
be long-term. See H.J. Inc., 492 U.S. at 242, 109 S.Ct. 2893. Such conduct
must entail at least two predicate acts. The illegal activities must fall within
the list of crimes specified in the statute. The racketeering offenses must be
related and continuous. The criminal pattern must extend over a substantial
period of time; sporadic or isolated wrongdoing does not suffice. See id.;
Sedima, 473 U.S. at 497 n. 14, 105 S.Ct. 3275; GICC, 67 F.3d at 467.
Summary
Clear outline of the elements necessary for a RICO claim, emphasizing the
need for long-term conduct, at least two predicate acts, and a pattern of
racketeering that is related and continuous. These elements are essential for
a plaintiff to establish a RICO violation.
Bd. of Managers of Trump Tower at City Ctr. Condo. v. Palazzolo, 346
F.Supp.3d 432 (S.D. N.Y. 2018)
U.S. District Court — Southern District of New York
Extract
For example, in Securitron Magnalock Corp. v. Schnabolk, 65 F.3d 256 (2d
Cir. 1995), the Second Circuit concluded that an individual person and 'two
separate and distinct corporations' may be held liable, as the three are
'clearly ... RICO person[s] as well as ... member[s] of a RICO enterprise.' Id.
at 263. Indeed, the distinctness cases are not necessarily concerned with
complete overlap of RICO persons and RICO enterprises. ... (Tobia Defs.'
Mem 7 ('[S]imply lumping ... Defendants into collective allegations, as
Plaintiff does in the Amended Complaint, fails the particularity requirement
of Rule 9(b) regarding RICO claims under § 1962(c).' (internal quotation
marks omitted); ACC Mem. 6 ('[A] plaintiff must allege that each RICO
defendant committed at least two predicate acts of racketeering activity
within the last 10 years.').)
Summary
The passage provides insight into the requirements for a civil RICO claim
under § 1962(c). It highlights the need for distinctness between RICO
persons and enterprises, and the necessity for particularity in allegations, as
per Rule 9(b). Additionally, it specifies that a plaintiff must allege that each
RICO defendant committed at least two predicate acts of racketeering
activity within the last 10 years. This information is generally applicable to
RICO claims and is not limited to the specific case.
Chambers v. King Buick GMC, LLC, 43 F. Supp. 3d 575 (D. Md. 2014)
U.S. District Court — District of Maryland

=== PAGE 15 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
In order for a civil RICO claim to survive a Rule 12(b)(6) motion to dismiss,
plaintiff must allege “(1) conduct; (2) of an enterprise; (3) through a pattern;
(4) of racketeering.” Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex Co., 473 U.S. 479, 496, 105
S.Ct. 3275, 87 L.Ed.2d 346 (1985). Plaintiff must additionally plead
proximate cause, that is she was injured in her business or property “by
reason of” the RICO violation. Hemi Group, LLC v. City of New York, N.Y.,
559 U.S. 1, 6, 130 S.Ct. 983, 175 L.Ed.2d 943 (2010).
Summary
Essential elements required for a civil RICO claim to proceed past a motion
to dismiss. These elements are conduct, an enterprise, a pattern, and
racketeering. Additionally, the plaintiff must demonstrate proximate cause,
meaning the injury to their business or property must be directly caused by
the RICO violation. This information is derived from established case law,
making it broadly applicable to civil RICO claims in federal court.
De Wit v. Firstar Corp., 879 F.Supp. 947 (N.D. W.Va. 1995)
U.S. District Court — Northern District of West Virginia
Extract
Count I of the amended complaint alleges a violation of the provision of the
Racketeer Influenced And Corrupt Organizations Act, 18 U.S.C. ? 1962(c),
which pertains to interest in or control of a RICO enterprise. The complaint
alleges that 'from at least September 30, 1993, and through June 3, 1994,'
defendants, identified collectively as 'Firstar,' participated 'directly and/or
indirectly' in and were associated with Morken's RICO enterprise.
Complaint, ? 43. The 'pattern' of racketeering alleged in this count includes
mail and wire fraud, fraud in the sale of securities, a scheme to defraud
investors, and filing of false affidavits in bankruptcy. Complaint, ? 44... The
court concludes that plaintiff's have failed to allege the first and threshold
element of a RICO claim under ? 1962(c), conduct of a RICO enterprise, and
therefore defendants' motion to dismiss the RICO claim should be granted.
Nonetheless, the court will consider, as alternatives to this holding, the
adequacy of plaintiffs' allegations of the other elements of such a claim.
Plaintiffs' RICO claim must be dismissed, because it fails to plead sufficiently
the elements of a RICO offense under 18 U.S.C. ? 1962(c). First, the court
concludes that plaintiffs complaint is deficient on the critical threshold
allegation of 'conduct' of a RICO enterprise by the defendants. The
complaint does not allege that defendants participated in the conduct of
Morken's RICO enterprise itself. Rather, it alleges only that defendants
conducted that enterprise's banking scheme. As alleged, the court concludes
that defendants' conduct was one step removed from management of the
RICO enterprise itself, and thus liability will not lie under ? 1962(c).

=== PAGE 16 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Elements necessary for a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). It
specifies that a plaintiff must allege the "conduct" of a RICO enterprise,
which is a critical threshold element. The court found that the plaintiffs
failed to allege that the defendants conducted the RICO enterprise itself,
which led to the dismissal of the RICO claim. This indicates that for a
successful RICO claim, the plaintiff must show that the defendant had some
level of control or management over the RICO enterprise, not just peripheral
involvement.
Securitron Magnalock Corp. v. Schnabolk, 65 F.3d 256 (2nd Cir. 1995)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Second Circuit
Extract
In response to specific questions regarding Securitron's RICO claim, the jury
found: that the defendants Schnabolk, Kalon and Andra constituted an
'enterprise;' that the defendants engaged in two or more acts of
'racketeering;' that the racketeering acts were connected by a common
scheme, plan or motive; that the acts were committed within ten years of
each other and constituted a pattern of racketeering; and that Securitron
suffered an injury in its business as the result of the pattern.
Summary
Elements necessary for a civil RICO claim: (1) the existence of an
"enterprise," (2) engagement in two or more acts of "racketeering," (3) a
connection between the racketeering acts through a common scheme, plan,
or motive, (4) the acts must be within ten years of each other and form a
pattern of racketeering, and (5) the plaintiff must have suffered an injury in
business as a result of the pattern. These elements are essential for
establishing a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1962(c).
Bridge v. Phoenix Bond & Indem. Co., 128 S.Ct. 2131, 170 L.Ed.2d 1012, 553
U.S. 639, 8 Cal. Daily Op. Serv. 6929, 21 Fla. L. Weekly Fed. S 295, 76 USLW
4381, 2008 Daily Journal D.A.R. 8339 (2008)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
A plaintiff asserting a RICO claim predicated on mail fraud need not show,
either as an element of its claim or as a prerequisite to establishing
proximate causation, that it relied on the defendant's alleged
misrepresentations. ... RICO's private right of action is contained in 18
U.S.C. § 1964(c), which provides in relevant part that '[a]ny person injured in

=== PAGE 17 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
his business or property by reason of a violation of section 1962 of this
chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United States district court and
shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit,
including a reasonable attorney's fee.' Section 1962 contains RICO's
criminal prohibitions. Pertinent here is § 1962(c), which makes it 'unlawful
for any person employed by or associated with' an enterprise engaged in or
affecting interstate or foreign commerce 'to conduct or participate, directly
or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity.'
Summary
The passage from the U.S. Supreme Court case clarifies that for a civil RICO
claim predicated on mail fraud, a plaintiff does not need to demonstrate
reliance on the defendant's misrepresentations. The relevant statutory
provisions are found in 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c) and § 1962(c), which outline the
requirements for a private right of action and the unlawful conduct involving
a pattern of racketeering activity, respectively. This information is generally
applicable to civil RICO claims and provides insight into the elements
required for such claims.
Canyon County v. Syngenta Seeds, Inc., 519 F.3d 969 (9th Cir. 2008)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Ninth Circuit
Extract
Under RICO's civil enforcement mechanism, '[a]ny person injured in his
business or property by reason of a violation of [18 U.S.C. § 1962] may sue
therefor in any appropriate United States district court and shall recover
threefold the damages he sustains and the cost of the suit, including a
reasonable attorney's fee....' 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c). To have standing under §
1964(c), a civil RICO plaintiff must show: (1) that his alleged harm qualifies
as injury to his business or property; and (2) that his harm was 'by reason of'
the RICO violation, which requires the plaintiff to establish proximate
causation.
Summary
For a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim, they must demonstrate two
key elements: (1) an injury to their business or property, and (2) that this
injury was caused by a RICO violation, which involves establishing
proximate causation. This is a general requirement under the civil
enforcement mechanism of RICO as outlined in 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c).
Hemi Grp. LLC v. City of New York, 130 S.Ct. 983, 175 L. Ed. 2d 943 (2009)
U.S. Supreme Court

=== PAGE 18 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
RICO provides a private cause of action for '[a]ny person injured in his
business or property by reason of a violation of section 1962 of this chapter.'
18 U.S.C. § 1964(c). Section 1962, in turn, contains RICO's criminal
provisions. Specifically, § 1962(c), which the City invokes here, makes it
'unlawful for any person employed by or associated with any enterprise
engaged in, or the activities of which affect, interstate ... commerce, to
conduct or participate, directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such
enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity.' 'Racketeering
activity' is defined to include a number of so-called predicate acts, including
the two at issue in this case — mail and wire fraud. See § 1961(1).
Summary
Clear explanation of the elements required for a civil RICO claim. It specifies
that a plaintiff must demonstrate an injury to business or property by reason
of a violation of section 1962, which involves conducting or participating in
an enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering activity. The
passage also clarifies that racketeering activity includes predicate acts such
as mail and wire fraud. This information is directly relevant to
understanding the elements necessary for a civil RICO claim.
Reves v. Ernst Young, 507 U.S. 170, 113 S.Ct. 1163, 122 L.Ed.2d 525 (1993)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
A provision of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
(RICO), 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), makes it unlawful 'for any person employed by
or associated with [an interstate] enterprise... to conduct or participate,
directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a
pattern of racketeering activity....' ... In order to 'participate, directly or
indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs,' one must have some
part in directing those affairs. Of course, the word 'participate' makes clear
that RICO liability is not limited to those with primary responsibility for the
enterprise's affairs, just as the phrase 'directly or indirectly' makes clear
that RICO liability is not limited to those with a formal position in the
enterprise, but some part in directing the enterprise's affairs is required.
The 'operation or management' test expresses this requirement in a
formulation that is easy to apply.
Summary
The passage from the Reves v. Ernst Young case provides insight into the
elements required for a civil RICO claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). It
specifies that a person must be employed by or associated with an
enterprise engaged in interstate commerce and must conduct or participate

=== PAGE 19 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
in the conduct of the enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering
activity. The "operation or management" test is crucial, indicating that the
person must have some part in directing the enterprise's affairs, though not
necessarily holding a formal position or primary responsibility.
Williams v. Mohawk Industries, Inc., 465 F.3d 1277 (11th Cir. 2006)
U.S. Court of Appeals — Eleventh Circuit
Extract
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), it is illegal 'for any person employed by or
associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities of which affect,
interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate, directly or
indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a pattern of
racketeering activity....' 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). Thus, in order to establish a
federal civil RICO violation under § 1962(c), the plaintiffs 'must satisfy four
elements of proof: `(1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4)
of racketeering activity.' ... In civil cases, however, RICO plaintiffs must also
satisfy the requirements of 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c). Section 1964(c) states that
'[a]ny person injured in his business or property by reason of' RICO's
substantive provisions has the right to 'recover threefold the damages he
sustains....' 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c). Thus, under § 1964(c), civil RICO claimants,
such as the plaintiffs here, must show (1) the requisite injury to 'business or
property,' and (2) that such injury was 'by reason of' the substantive RICO
violation.
Summary
The passage from the court case outlines the elements required to establish
a federal civil RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c). It specifies that
plaintiffs must prove conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of
racketeering activity. Additionally, under 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c), plaintiffs must
demonstrate an injury to business or property caused by the RICO violation.
This information is directly relevant to understanding the elements
necessary for a civil RICO claim.
Inc v. Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, 492 U.S. 229, 109 S.Ct. 2893,
106 L.Ed.2d 195 (1989)
U.S. Supreme Court
Extract
RICO's legislative history, however, establishes that Congress intended that
to prove a 'pattern of racketeering activity' a plaintiff or prosecutor must
show both 'relationship' and 'continuity'—that the racketeering predicates
are related, and that they either constitute or threaten long-term criminal

=== PAGE 20 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
activity. ... The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO
or Act), Pub.L. 91-452, Title IX, 84 Stat. 941, as amended, 18 U.S.C. §§
1961-1968 (1982 ed. and Supp. V), imposes criminal and civil liability upon
those who engage in certain 'prohibited activities.' Each prohibited activity
is defined in 18 U.S.C. § 1962 to include, as one necessary element, proof
either of 'a pattern of racketeering activity' or of 'collection of an unlawful
debt.' 'Racketeering activity' is defined in RICO to mean 'any act or threat
involving' specified state-law crimes, any 'act' indictable under various
specified federal statutes, and certain federal 'offenses,' 18 U.S.C. § 1961(1)
(1982 ed., Supp. V); but of the term 'pattern' the statute says only that it
'requires at least two acts of racketeering activity' within a 10-year period,
18 U.S.C. § 1961(5).
Summary
Detailed explanation of the elements required to establish a "pattern of
racketeering activity" under RICO. It specifies that a plaintiff must
demonstrate both "relationship" and "continuity" in the racketeering
predicates, meaning the acts must be related and either constitute or
threaten long-term criminal activity. Additionally, the passage clarifies that
RICO requires at least two acts of racketeering activity within a 10-year
period. This information is crucial for understanding the elements necessary
for a civil RICO claim.
Sundquist v. Hultquist, Cause No. 1:20-CV-275-HAB (N.D. Ind. Sep 09, 2020)
U.S. District Court — Northern District of Indiana
Extract
Accordingly, to state a claim for a RICO violation, a plaintiff must allege a
cognizable injury to its business or property resulting from the '(1) conduct
(2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity.'
Gamboa, 457 F.3d at 705.
Summary
Clear outline of the elements required to establish a civil RICO claim. It
specifies that a plaintiff must demonstrate an injury to business or property
caused by conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering
activity. This is a fundamental requirement for any civil RICO claim under
U.S. Federal law.
Kerwick v. Pullman & Comley LLC, 3:24-CV-00427 (KAD) (D. Conn. Dec 20,
2024)
U.S. District Court — District of Connecticut

=== PAGE 21 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
A private cause of action under RICO requires that the plaintiff allege: ‘(1)
the defendant's violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962, (2) an injury to the plaintiff's
business or property, and (3) causation of the injury by the defendant's
violation.’” Lerner v. Fleet Bank, N.A., 459 F.3d 273, 283 (2d Cir. 2006). To
state a claim under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), a plaintiff must allege “(1) that the
defendant (2) through the commission of two or more acts (3) constituting a
‘pattern’ (4) of ‘racketeering activity’ (5) directly or indirectly invests in, or
maintains [an] interest in, or participates in (6) an ‘enterprise’ (7) the
activities of which affect interstate or foreign commerce.”
Summary
The passage from the Kerwick v. Pullman & Comley LLC case provides a
clear outline of the elements required for a civil RICO claim. It specifies the
need for a violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1962, an injury to business or property,
and causation of the injury by the violation. Additionally, it details the
requirements under 18 U.S.C. § 1962(c), including the commission of two or
more acts constituting a pattern of racketeering activity, involvement in an
enterprise, and the effect on interstate or foreign commerce. This
information is directly relevant to understanding the elements necessary for
a civil RICO claim.
Lockhart v. Deluca
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Michigan
Extract
To state a RICO claim, a plaintiff must plead: “(1) conduct (2) of an
enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity.” Sedima,
S.P.R.L., 473 U.S. at 496. Each of these elements, in turn, has its own sub-
elements. To plead an enterprise, for instance, a plaintiff must allege: 1) an
ongoing organization with some sort of framework or superstructure for
making and carrying out decisions; 2) that the members of the enterprise
functioned as a continuing unit with established duties; and 3) that the
enterprise was separate and distinct from the pattern of racketeering
activity in which it engaged.
Summary
Clear outline of the elements required to establish a civil RICO claim, as well
as additional details on the sub-elements necessary to plead an enterprise.
This information is directly relevant to understanding the requirements for a
plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim.
Sheftelman v. Jones, 605 F.Supp. 549 (N.D. Ga. 1984)

=== PAGE 22 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
U.S. District Court — Northern District of Georgia
Extract
To state a claim for damages under RICO a plaintiff has two pleading
burdens. He must allege that the defendant has violated the substantive
RICO statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1962, and that he was injured in his business or
property by reason of a violation of section 1962, 18 U.S.C. § 1964. Moss v.
Morgan Stanley, Inc., 719 F.2d 5, 17 (2d Cir.1983). Plaintiff must allege the
existence of seven elements to satisfy the pleading burden under the
substantive RICO statute: (1) that the defendant (2) through the commission
of two or more acts (3) constituting a 'pattern' (4) of 'racketeering
activity' (5) directly or indirectly invests in, or maintains an interest in, or
participates in (6) an 'enterprise' (7) the activities of which affect interstate
or foreign commerce.
Summary
Clear outline of the elements required for a civil RICO claim, which are
generally applicable in U.S. Federal jurisdiction. It specifies the need to
allege a violation of the substantive RICO statute and an injury resulting
from that violation. It further breaks down the elements into seven specific
requirements, which are essential for understanding what a plaintiff must
demonstrate to prevail in a civil RICO claim.
Fairfield Fin. Mortg. Grp., Inc. v. Luca, 925 F.Supp.2d 344 (E.D. N.Y. 2013)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
To state a claim for damages under RICO a plaintiff has two pleading
burdens. First, he must allege that the defendant has violated the
substantive RICO statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1962 (1976), commonly known as
“criminal RICO.” In so doing, he must allege the existence of seven
constituent elements: (1) that the defendant (2) through the commission of
two or more acts (3) constituting a “pattern” (4) of “racketeering
activity” (5) directly or indirectly invests in, or maintains an interest in, or
participates in (6) an “enterprise” (7) the activities of which affect interstate
or foreign commerce. 18 U.S.C. § 1962(a)-(c). Plaintiff must allege
adequately defendant's violation, of section 1962 before turning to the
second burden—i.e., invoking RICO's civil remedies of treble damages,
attorneys fees and costs.
Summary
Clear framework for understanding the legal requirements for a civil RICO
claim.

=== PAGE 23 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Arizona Premium Finance, Inc. v. Bielli, 77 F.Supp.2d 341 (E.D. N.Y. 1999)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of New York
Extract
To state a claim for damages under RICO a plaintiff has two pleading
burdens. First, he must allege that the defendant has violated the
substantive RICO statute, 18 U.S.C. § 1962 (1976), commonly known as
'criminal RICO.' In so doing, he must allege the existence of seven
constituent elements: (1) that the defendant (2) through the commission of
two or more acts (3) constituting a 'pattern' (4) of 'racketeering activity' (5)
directly or indirectly invests in, or maintains an interest in, or participates in
(6) an 'enterprise' (7) the activities of which affect interstate or foreign
commerce.... Plaintiff must allege adequately defendant's violation of section
1962 before turning to the second burden — i.e., invoking RICO's civil
remedies of treble damages, attorneys fees and costs....
Summary
To prevail in a civil RICO claim, a plaintiff must allege that the defendant
violated the substantive RICO statute by committing two or more acts that
form a pattern of racketeering activity, which involves an enterprise
affecting interstate or foreign commerce. This is a general requirement for
civil RICO claims in U.S. Federal courts.
Portionpac Chemical Corp. v. Sanitech Systems, 217 F.Supp.2d 1238 (M.D.
Fla. 2002)
U.S. District Court — Middle District of Florida
Extract
The elements of a civil RICO claim are: '(1) a violation of section 1962; (2)
injury to business or property; and (3) that the violation caused the injury.'
Summary
Clear and concise list of the elements required for a civil RICO claim, which
are: a violation of section 1962, an injury to business or property, and a
causal link between the violation and the injury. This information is directly
relevant to understanding the requirements for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil
RICO claim.
Saine v. AIA, INC., 582 F.Supp. 1299 (D. Colo. 1984)

=== PAGE 24 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
U.S. District Court — District of Colorado
Extract
The statutory pattern reveals eight elements that are critical to a RICO
claim: Moss v. Morgan Stanley Inc., 719 F.2d 5, 17 (2d Cir.1983); Taylor v.
Bear Stearns & Co., 572 F.Supp. 667, 682 (N.D.Ga.1983).
Summary
There are eight critical elements to a RICO claim, as identified in other
cases such as Moss v. Morgan Stanley Inc. and Taylor v. Bear Stearns & Co.
This suggests that these elements are well-established in the legal
interpretation of RICO claims.
Studco Bldg. Sys. U.S., LLC v. 1st Advantage Fed. Credit Union, 509 F.Supp.
3d 560 (E.D. Va. 2020)
U.S. District Court — Eastern District of Virginia
Extract
Generally, the elements of a civil Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO) claim are (1) a person, (2) an enterprise, (3) a
pattern of (4) racketeering activity (5) which causes injury to the plaintiff. 18
U.S.C.A. § 1962 (a, c). 'The injury and causation components [of element (5)]
are viewed as standing requirements.' D'Addario v. Geller, 264 F.Supp.2d
367, at 396 (E.D. Va. 2003) ; see also, Williams v. Equity Holding Corp., 498
F. Supp. 2d 831, 840 (E.D. Va. 2007). The Supreme Court has explained that
a civil RICO claim has four essential elements: '(1) conduct; (2) of an
enterprise; (3) through a pattern; (4) of racketeering activity.' Whitney,
Bradley & Brown, Inc. v. Kammermann, 436 F. App'x 257, 258 (4th Cir.
2011). 'Racketeering activity' includes mail and wire fraud. See 18 U.S.C.A. §
1961(1)(B).
Summary
Clear outline of the elements required for a civil RICO claim, which are
generally applicable in the U.S. Federal jurisdiction. It specifies the elements
as a person, an enterprise, a pattern of racketeering activity, and injury to
the plaintiff. It also highlights that the injury and causation components are
viewed as standing requirements, which is crucial for a plaintiff to establish
in a civil RICO claim.
Sedima v. Imrex Company, Inc, 473 U.S. 479, 105 S.Ct. 3275, 87 L.Ed.2d 346
(1985)
U.S. Supreme Court

=== PAGE 25 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
The Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), 18 U.S.C.
§§ 1961-1968, which is directed at 'racketeering activity'—defined in §
1961(1) to encompass, inter alia, acts 'indictable' under specific federal
criminal provisions, including mail and wire fraud—provides in § 1964(c) for
a private civil action to recover treble damages by any person injured in his
business or property 'by reason of a violation of section 1962.' Section
1962(c) prohibits conducting or participating in the conduct of an enterprise
'through a pattern of racketeering activity.'
Summary
The passage from the U.S. Supreme Court case Sedima v. Imrex Company,
Inc, provides insight into the elements required for a civil RICO claim. It
specifies that RICO is directed at "racketeering activity," which includes acts
indictable under federal criminal provisions such as mail and wire fraud. For
a civil RICO claim, § 1964(c) allows for a private action to recover treble
damages if a person is injured in their business or property "by reason of a
violation of section 1962." Section 1962(c) specifically prohibits conducting
or participating in the conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of
racketeering activity. This indicates that the elements required for a civil
RICO claim include: (1) the existence of an enterprise, (2) the defendant's
conduct or participation in the conduct of the enterprise, (3) through a
pattern of racketeering activity, and (4) injury to the plaintiff's business or
property by reason of the violation.
18 U.S.C. § 1964 18 U.S.C. § 1964 Civil Remedies
Extract
Any person injured in his business or property by reason of a violation of
section 1962 of this chapter may sue therefor in any appropriate United
States district court and shall recover threefold the damages he sustains and
the cost of the suit, including a reasonable attorney's fee, except that no
person may rely upon any conduct that would have been actionable as fraud
in the purchase or sale of securities to establish a violation of section 1962.
Summary
For a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim, they must demonstrate an
injury to their business or property due to a violation of section 1962. The
passage also specifies that the plaintiff can recover threefold the damages
and the cost of the suit, including attorney's fees. However, it excludes
reliance on conduct actionable as fraud in securities transactions unless
there is a criminal conviction related to the fraud.
18 U.S.C. § 1962 18 U.S.C. § 1962 Prohibited Activities

=== PAGE 26 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
It shall be unlawful for any person who has received any income derived,
directly or indirectly, from a pattern of racketeering activity or through
collection of an unlawful debt in which such person has participated as a
principal within the meaning of section 2, title 18, United States Code, to
use or invest, directly or indirectly, any part of such income, or the proceeds
of such income, in acquisition of any interest in, or the establishment or
operation of, any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce... It shall be unlawful for any person
through a pattern of racketeering activity or through collection of an
unlawful debt to acquire or maintain, directly or indirectly, any interest in or
control of any enterprise which is engaged in, or the activities of which
affect, interstate or foreign commerce... It shall be unlawful for any person
employed by or associated with any enterprise engaged in, or the activities
of which affect, interstate or foreign commerce, to conduct or participate,
directly or indirectly, in the conduct of such enterprise's affairs through a
pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful debt... It shall be
unlawful for any person to conspire to violate any of the provisions of
subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this section.
Summary
Prohibited activities under the RICO statute, which are essential elements
that must be satisfied for a civil RICO claim. These include: (1) the
involvement in a pattern of racketeering activity or collection of unlawful
debt, (2) the use or investment of income derived from such activities in an
enterprise affecting interstate or foreign commerce, (3) acquiring or
maintaining an interest in or control of such an enterprise through these
activities, (4) conducting or participating in the conduct of the enterprise's
affairs through these activities, and (5) conspiring to commit any of these
acts.
18 U.S.C. § 1961 18 U.S.C. § 1961 Definitions
Extract
As used in this chapter- 'racketeering activity' means (A) any act or threat
involving murder, kidnapping, gambling, arson, robbery, bribery, extortion,
dealing in obscene matter, or dealing in a controlled substance or listed
chemical (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act), which
is chargeable under State law and punishable by imprisonment for more
than one year; ... 'pattern of racketeering activity' requires at least two acts
of racketeering activity, one of which occurred after the effective date of this
chapter and the last of which occurred within ten years (excluding any
period of imprisonment) after the commission of a prior act of racketeering
activity; ... 'enterprise' includes any individual, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity, and any union or group of individuals
associated in fact although not a legal entity;

=== PAGE 27 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage provides definitions for key terms used in the RICO Act, such as
"racketeering activity," "pattern of racketeering activity," and "enterprise."
These definitions are crucial for understanding the elements that must be
satisfied for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim. Specifically, a plaintiff
must demonstrate a "pattern of racketeering activity," which involves at
least two acts of racketeering activity, and the existence of an "enterprise"
that is engaged in or affects interstate or foreign commerce.
PAYORS, PLAYERS, AND PROXIMATE CAUSE.
Notre Dame Law Review - University of Notre Dame Law School -
Crusey, Elisabeth F. - 2022-05-01
Extract
Section 1964(c)&#39;s language does not call for a plaintiff to allege a
particular &#34;racketeering injury&#34; as an element to state a claim.
(54) Unlike the requirements for alleging an &#34;antitrust&#34; injury
under the Clayton Act, for RICO, as long as the plaintiff was injured--
regardless of the type--by the defendant&#39;s racketeering activity, that
plaintiff&#39;s claim does not fail for lack of a &#34;racketeering
injury.&#34; (55) Eight years later, the Court affirmed this lack of a
requirement for a &#34;racketeering injury&#34; in Holmes v. Securities
Investor Protection Corp. (Holmes). (56) On its face, it may seem that
Sedima broadened the Court&#39;s conception of recovery under RICO by
allowing plaintiffs to allege any injury. However, plaintiffs must still meet the
second requirement of statutory standing to bring a valid claim: whether
they were injured by reason of the alleged racketeering activity. (57) The
instant split&#39;s disagreements center around this second requirement--
what does by reason of mean? In Holmes, the Court evaluated the second
part of statutory standing under [section] 1964(c)--that the injury must be
&#34;by reason of a RICO violation. (58) Despite the Sedima Court&#39;s
departure from precedent that relies on the Clayton Act to interpret RICO
injuries, the Court continues to derive RICO&#39;s meaning from the
Clayton Act for the second part of the statutory standing requirement. (59)
In Holmes, the Court determined that &#34;by reason of means that
plaintiffs must establish that a defendant&#39;s alleged RICO violation
proximately caused their injuries. (60)
Summary
The passage provides insight into the elements required for a civil RICO
claim, specifically focusing on the requirement that a plaintiff must
demonstrate injury "by reason of" a RICO violation, which means
establishing proximate cause between the defendant's alleged RICO
violation and the plaintiff's injury. This is a critical element of statutory
standing under Section 1964(c).

=== PAGE 28 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Seeing the forest: a holistic view of the RICO statute of limitations.
Notre Dame Law Review - University of Notre Dame Law School -
McNeill, Carli - 2010-03-01
Extract
In Keystone, the court sought an accrual rule that took into account the
continuing nature of a RICO offense (i.e., its pattern element) (52) and that
would not start the statute of limitations running until all of the elements of
the cause of action existed. (53) ... the limitations period would start to run
from the date the plaintiff knew or should have known that the elements of
the civil RICO cause of action existed unless, as a part of the same pattern of
racketeering activity, there is further injury to the plaintiff or further
predicate acts occur, in which case the accrual period shall run from the
time when the plaintiff knew or should have known of the last injury or the
last predicate act which is part of the same pattern of racketeering activity.
(54)
Summary
The passage discusses the accrual rule for civil RICO claims, emphasizing
the importance of the "pattern element" and the timing of when the statute
of limitations begins. It highlights that the statute of limitations does not
start until all elements of the cause of action exist, which includes the
pattern of racketeering activity. This indicates that the elements of a civil
RICO claim include the existence of a pattern of racketeering activity and
the plaintiff's knowledge of the injury and the pattern.
Civil Rico: A Tool of Advocacy
The Brief - American Bar Association - 2024-01-01
Extract
A violation of § 1962(c), the section on which Sedima relies, requires (1)
conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering
activity. The plaintiff must allege each of the elements to state a claim. They
are all equally essential components, and the complaint will fail if any one of
them is not adequately pleaded. ... RICO creates a private cause of action
under 18 U.S.C. § 1964(c). To state a civil RICO claim, a plaintiff must allege
(1) two or more predicate racketeering offenses, (2) the existence of an
enterprise affecting interstate commerce, (3) a connection between the
racketeering offenses, and (4) an injury by reason of the above.
Summary
Clear and direct answer to the question by listing these elements.

=== PAGE 29 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bailey, Lisa Pritchard - 1999-06-22
Extract
Section 1962 prohibits 'any person' from: (a) using income received from a
pattern of racketeering activity or from the collection of an unlawful debt to
acquire an... the language to have the same meaning.(394) Where the
underlying violation is an alleged [sections] 1962(d)(395) 'RICO conspiracy
claim,'(396) the circuits disagree as to which requirements must be met to
establish standing for a civil suit. Specifically, the circuits are divided as to
whether the conspiratorial act which results in an injury and provides the
basis for a civil claim must be specifically codified as a RICO predicate act,
(397) or whether any overt act in furtherance of a conspiracy to violate
RICO is sufficient for standing.
Summary
The passage provides insight into the requirements for a civil RICO claim
under Section 1962. It highlights that a plaintiff must demonstrate a pattern
of racketeering activity or the collection of an unlawful debt. Additionally, it
discusses the disagreement among circuits regarding whether the act
causing injury must be a RICO predicate act or any overt act in furtherance
of a RICO conspiracy. This information is crucial for understanding the
elements necessary for a civil RICO claim.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Holt, Michael W. - 2009-03-22
Extract
Section 1962 of RICO prohibits 'any person' from: (i) using income derived
from a pattern of racketeering activity, or... 1962(d). The Court held that an
injury caused by an overt act that is not an act of racketeering nor otherwise
unlawful under RICO is not sufficient to bring a civil RICO suit. (312)
Therefore, a plaintiff bringing a civil RICO claim for injuries sustained from
a violation of [section] 1962(d) must demonstrate that the injuries arose
from a predicate act that is independently wrongful under RICO. (313)
Moreover, a plaintiff must prove that the defendant's violation of [section]
1962 was the proximate cause of the plaintiff's injury to have standing for a
civil RICO action. (314)

=== PAGE 30 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Requirements for a civil RICO claim, specifically under Section 1962. It
highlights that a plaintiff must demonstrate that their injuries arose from a
predicate act that is independently wrongful under RICO. Additionally, the
plaintiff must prove that the defendant's violation of Section 1962 was the
proximate cause of the plaintiff's injury. These elements are essential for
establishing standing in a civil RICO action.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Bagley, Ross - 2007-03-22
Extract
Section 1962 of RICO prohibits 'any person' from: (i) using income derived
from a pattern of racketeering activity... a plaintiff bringing a civil RICO
claim for injuries sustained from a violation of [section] 1962(d) must
demonstrate that the injuries arose from a predicate act that is
independently wrongful under RICO. Moreover, a plaintiff must prove that
the defendant's violation of [section] 1962 was the proximate cause of the
plaintiff's injury to have standing for a civil RICO action.
Summary
The passage outlines key elements necessary for a civil RICO claim: (1) the
plaintiff must demonstrate that the injuries arose from a predicate act that is
independently wrongful under RICO, and (2) the plaintiff must prove that the
defendant's violation of Section 1962 was the proximate cause of the
plaintiff's injury. These elements are crucial for establishing standing in a
civil RICO action.
Chapter 4. Elements of Cause of Action
Civil RICO: A Definitive Guide. Fifth Edition - American Bar
Association - Gregory P. Joseph
Extract
to plead conspiracy adequately, the plaintiff must set forth allegations
addressing a. the period of the conspiracy, b. the object of the conspiracy, c.
the overt acts taken in furtherance of the conspiracy, d. the agreement to
commit predicate acts, and e. knowledge that the acts were part of a pattern
of racketeering activity conducted in such a way as to violate § 1962(a), (b),
or (c); the plaintiff must also establish 3. injury to the plaintiff’s business or
property (§ 6(A)(2)–(3) supra) 4. by reason of (§ 6(A)(4) supra) 5. an overt act
that must also be a predicate act

=== PAGE 31 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The elements required for a civil RICO claim include: (1) allegations of a
conspiracy with details on the period, object, overt acts, agreement to
commit predicate acts, and knowledge of a pattern of racketeering activity;
(2) injury to the plaintiff’s business or property; (3) causation, meaning the
injury must be "by reason of" the racketeering activity; and (4) an overt act
that must also be a predicate act. These elements are essential for
establishing a civil RICO claim.
Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations.
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
Franklin, Amy - 2008-03-22
Extract
Moreover, a plaintiff must prove that the defendant's violation of [section]
1962 was the proximate cause of the plaintiff's injury to have standing for a
civil RICO action. (310) In creating this proximate cause requirement, the
Court reasoned that Congress modeled [section] 1964(c) on the civil action
provisions in the Clayton Act, (311) which federal courts have long held to
require a showing of proximate causation. (312)
Summary
The passage provides insight into one of the elements required for a civil
RICO claim, specifically the need for the plaintiff to demonstrate that the
defendant's violation of section 1962 was the proximate cause of the
plaintiff's injury. This requirement is modeled after the civil action provisions
in the Clayton Act, indicating its broad applicability in civil RICO cases.
RACKETEER INFLUENCED AND CORRUPT ORGANIZATIONS
American Criminal Law Review - Georgetown University Law Center -
2021-07-01
Extract
Standing for a civil cause of action under RICO is established when a
plaintiff shows: a violation of § 1962(a), (b), (c), ... a plaintiff must prove the
defendant’s violation of § 1962 was the proximate cause of the plaintiff’s
injury.
Summary
The passage provides insight into the elements required for a civil RICO
claim, specifically focusing on the need for a plaintiff to demonstrate a

=== PAGE 32 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
violation of § 1962 and that this violation was the proximate cause of the
injury. This is a critical component of establishing standing in a civil RICO
case.
CRIMINAL LAW - NINTH CIRCUIT HOLDING HIGHLIGHTS CUMBERSOME
APPLICATION OF PRESUMPTION AGAINST EXTRATERRITORIALITY IN
FEDERAL STATUTES WITH STATE PREDICATES - UNITED STATES V.
PEREZ.
Suffolk Transnational Law Review - Suffolk University Law School -
Callahan, Kathleen - 2021-01-01
Extract
18 U.S.C. [section] 1961. Id. at (b)(1). See also 18 U.S.C. [section] 1961(1)
(2018) (defining 'racketeering activity' under Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupts Organizations (RICO) statute. RICO defines racketeering activity
as 'Any act or threat involving murder, kidnapping, gambling, arson,
robbery, bribery, extortion, dealing in obscene matter, or dealing in a
controlled substance or listed chemical... which is chargeable under State
law and punishable by imprisonment for more than one year.' Id. at (1)(A).
The statute also enumerates several other federal criminal statutes whose
violation constitutes racketeering activity. Id. at (1)(B).
Summary
Definition of "racketeering activity" under the RICO statute, which is crucial
for understanding one of the elements that must be satisfied in a RICO
claim. The definition includes a range of criminal acts that are chargeable
under state law and punishable by more than one year of imprisonment. This
is a key component in establishing a pattern of racketeering activity, which
is necessary for a RICO claim.
RECONCEIVING COERCION-BASED CRIMINAL DEFENSES.
Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology - Northwestern University,
School of Law - Galoob, Stephen R. - 2022-03-22
Extract
The inquiry here is meant to invoke the 'pattern of racketeering activity'
element of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO).
The Organized Crime Control Act (1970), which includes RICO, provides that
'criminal conduct forms a pattern if it embraces criminal acts that have the
same or similar purposes, results, participants, victims, or methods of
commission, or otherwise are interrelated by distinguishing characteristics
and are not isolated events.' The Supreme Court characterized this
requirement as a 'relationship' element and held that the statute further

=== PAGE 33 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
requires a 'continuity' element, 'referring either to a closed period of
repeated conduct, or to past conduct that by its nature projects into the
future with a threat of repetition.'
Summary
The passage provides insight into the "pattern of racketeering activity"
element of RICO, which is crucial for a civil RICO claim. It explains that a
pattern requires criminal acts with similar purposes or methods, and these
acts must be interrelated and not isolated. Additionally, the Supreme Court's
interpretation adds the requirement of "continuity," meaning the conduct
must either be repeated over a closed period or pose a threat of future
repetition.
Crimes
The Florida Criminal Cases Notebook. Volume 1-2 - James Publishing
- Joseph C. Bodiford - 2021-04-30
Extract
In a substantive Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO)
prosecution, the five-year statute of limitations begins from the date of the
last predicate act in which the defendant personally participated, not the
date of the last predicate act committed by the enterprise as a whole. State
must specifically plead a RICO conspiracy if it intends to charge a defendant
accordingly. In a RICO conspiracy, the crime is premised not upon the
commission of the predicate acts of racketeering, or even an agreement to
commit predicate acts, but upon an agreement to participate in the affairs of
the criminal enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. While the
state may plead and prove a substantive RICO charge by establishing a
pattern of racketeering activity that includes conspiracies to commit
predicate acts, this does not convert a plainly pleaded substantive RICO
charge into a RICO conspiracy. A conspiracy to commit predicate acts of
racketeering is different in kind from a conspiracy to conduct the affairs of
the enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity. The former
describes a method by which a substantive RICO can be charged and
proven. The latter describes a RICO conspiracy offense.
Summary
For a RICO claim, the statute of limitations is tied to the last predicate act
the defendant participated in. A RICO conspiracy requires an agreement to
participate in the enterprise's affairs through a pattern of racketeering
activity, not just the commission of predicate acts. This distinction is crucial
in understanding the elements required for a RICO claim.

=== PAGE 34 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
S. Rept. 104-98 - Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
1995-06-19
Congressional Committee Reports
Extract
The Committee amends Section 1964(c) of Title 18 of the U.S. Code to
remove any conduct that would have been actionable as fraud in the
purchase or sale of securities as a predicate act of racketeering under civil
RICO. The Committee intends this amendment to eliminate securities fraud
as a predicate act of racketeering in a civil RICO action. In addition, a
plaintiff may not plead other specified offenses, such as mail or wire fraud,
as predicate acts of racketeering under civil RICO if such offenses are based
on conduct that would have been actionable as securities fraud.
Summary
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 amended the RICO
statute to exclude securities fraud as a predicate act for civil RICO claims.
This means that for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim, they cannot
use securities fraud as a basis for the claim. This amendment narrows the
scope of what can be considered a predicate act under RICO, specifically
excluding conduct that would be actionable as securities fraud.
Santos v. Delta Airlines, Inc.
USDOL Administrative Review Board Decisions
Extract
APPLYING THE MORRISON TEST TO CLAIMS ARISING UNDER THE RICO
ACT... A review of these decisions reveals that district courts have had little
trouble applying Morrison's first step, and have uniformly held that because
the text of RICO is silent as to its extraterritorial application, the
presumption of extraterritoriality dictates that RICO does not extend
protection to 'extraterritorial' claims... the challenge of applying Morrison in
RICO cases stems from the difficulty in ascertaining where a RICO
enterprise is located... the court explained that 'the challenge of applying
Morrison in RICO cases stems from the difficulty in ascertaining where a
RICO enterprise is located.'... the court pointed out that because the RICO
enterprise is not necessarily the named defendant in a RICO case, 'there is
no necessary or, in many cases, even probable connection between where
the RICO enterprise makes its decisions and whether the application of
RICO to the racketeering activity at issue in a given case was the sort of
activity with which Congress would have been concerned.'... the court found
that 'the focus properly is on the pattern of racketeering activity and its
consequences.'

=== PAGE 35 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
Application of the Morrison test to RICO claims, emphasizing the
presumption against extraterritoriality and the focus on the pattern of
racketeering activity. It highlights the challenges in determining the location
of a RICO enterprise and the importance of the pattern of racketeering
activity and its consequences. This is relevant to understanding the
elements of a RICO claim, as it underscores the need to establish a pattern
of racketeering activity and its impact on an enterprise.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
RICO provides for a civil action against persons engaged in a 'pattern of
racketeering activity' or 'collection of an unlawful debt.' A successful
plaintiff may recover treble damages, costs, and attorneys' fees. ... Notably,
there must be some nexus to interstate or foreign commerce-it is a
jurisdictional element of a civil RICO claim. Thus, predicate acts will often
occur in several States. ... A plaintiff is required to demonstrate that the
defendant conducted the affairs of an enterprise though a pattern of
racketeering activity. The person and the enterprise generally must be
distinct; but, of course, a Rico person can be a part of an enterprise.
Summary
The elements that must be satisfied for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO
claim include: (1) engagement in a "pattern of racketeering activity" or
"collection of an unlawful debt," (2) a nexus to interstate or foreign
commerce, (3) the defendant must have conducted the affairs of an
enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, and (4) the person and
the enterprise must generally be distinct, although a RICO person can be
part of an enterprise. These elements are essential for establishing a civil
RICO claim.
Defending Civil RICO Claims: A Defense Plan Should Be In Every Business's
Arsenal
Extract
First, to bring a civil RICO claim, a plaintiff must demonstrate that their
business or property was injured as a result of a RICO violation. In other
words, there must be some sort of concrete financial loss directly flowing
from the purported violation to support a RICO claim. Thus, if a plaintiff
does not have a concrete financial loss, then the RICO claim must be
dismissed. Asserting personal injuries, such as emotion distress, is
insufficient. Second, to prove most types of RICO claims, the plaintiff must
plead that the defendant committed some qualifying criminal action, the

=== PAGE 36 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
most common of which is mail, wire or securities fraud. Business deals gone
sour do not count. Rather, the plaintiff must be able to prove the elements of
the asserted crime, and often an intent to defraud. If there is nothing
criminal in nature about the complained-of conduct, RICO should not apply.
It is an abuse of the RICO statute to attempt to shoehorn ordinary business
or contractual disputes into a civil RICO claim. Third, the plaintiff must
plead a pattern of racketeering activity for most RICO claims. If the alleged
conduct occurred once or twice, or was not continuous, it cannot form a
pattern of conduct sufficient to support a RICO claim. And oftentimes,
because there is a fraud component, those instances must be particularly
identified in the plaintiff's pleading'a barrier that can prove difficult to
accomplish. Fourth, for most RICO claims, the plaintiff also must plead that
the alleged 'person' and 'enterprise,' as defined in RICO, are distinct. While
often technical, this 'distinctiveness' requirement provides that a
corporation generally will not be liable for operating an 'enterprise'
consisting of itself and its officers or employees. If a business is alleged to
have violated RICO based on intracompany actions, then the RICO claim has
a good chance of dismissal. Fifth, a RICO claim cannot exist without some
nexus to interstate commerce. If the alleged conduct does not affect
interstate commerce, it must be dismissed. While a company is unlikely to
be involved in a dispute without a relationship to commerce, this element of
a RICO claim should nevertheless be scrutinized as another fruitful avenue
for early dismissal. Finally, RICO has a four-year statute of limitations, which
is triggered by the date a plaintiff discovered or should have discovered the
purported criminal activity. Therefore, if four years has passed since that
date, the claim must be dismissed.
Summary
Elements required for a civil RICO claim: (1) a concrete financial loss to the
plaintiff's business or property due to a RICO violation, (2) a qualifying
criminal action by the defendant, (3) a pattern of racketeering activity, (4)
distinctiveness between the "person" and "enterprise," (5) a nexus to
interstate commerce, and (6) adherence to a four-year statute of limitations.
These elements are essential for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim.
Defending Civil RICO Claims: A Defense Plan Should Be In Every Business's
Arsenal
Extract
First, to bring a civil RICO claim, a plaintiff must demonstrate that their
business or property was injured as a result of a RICO violation. In other
words, there must be some sort of concrete financial loss directly flowing
from the purported violation to support a RICO claim. Thus, if a plaintiff
does not have a concrete financial loss, then the RICO claim must be
dismissed. Asserting personal injuries, such as emotion distress, is
insufficient. Second, to prove most types of RICO claims, the plaintiff must
plead that the defendant committed some qualifying criminal action, the
most common of which is mail, wire or securities fraud. Business deals gone

=== PAGE 37 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
sour do not count. Rather, the plaintiff must be able to prove the elements of
the asserted crime, and often an intent to defraud. If there is nothing
criminal in nature about the complained-of conduct, RICO should not apply.
It is an abuse of the RICO statute to attempt to shoehorn ordinary business
or contractual disputes into a civil RICO claim. Third, the plaintiff must
plead a pattern of racketeering activity for most RICO claims. If the alleged
conduct occurred once or twice, or was not continuous, it cannot form a
pattern of conduct sufficient to support a RICO claim. And oftentimes,
because there is a fraud component, those instances must be particularly
identified in the plaintiff's pleading'a barrier that can prove difficult to
accomplish. Fourth, for most RICO claims, the plaintiff also must plead that
the alleged 'person' and 'enterprise,' as defined in RICO, are distinct. While
often technical, this 'distinctiveness' requirement provides that a
corporation generally will not be liable for operating an 'enterprise'
consisting of itself and its officers or employees. If a business is alleged to
have violated RICO based on intracompany actions, then the RICO claim has
a good chance of dismissal. Fifth, a RICO claim cannot exist without some
nexus to interstate commerce. If the alleged conduct does not affect
interstate commerce, it must be dismissed. While a company is unlikely to
be involved in a dispute without a relationship to commerce, this element of
a RICO claim should nevertheless be scrutinized as another fruitful avenue
for early dismissal.
Summary
Essential elements that must be satisfied for a plaintiff to prevail in a civil
RICO claim. These elements include: (1) demonstrating a concrete financial
loss to business or property due to a RICO violation, (2) proving the
defendant committed a qualifying criminal action, (3) establishing a pattern
of racketeering activity, (4) showing distinctiveness between the "person"
and "enterprise," and (5) proving a nexus to interstate commerce. These
elements are critical for the viability of a civil RICO claim and are generally
applicable in the U.S. Federal jurisdiction.
RICO: A Primer
Extract
RICO provides for a civil action against persons engaged in a &#34;pattern
of racketeering activity&#34; or &#34;collection of an unlawful debt.&#34;
A successful plaintiff may recover treble damages, costs, and
attorneys&#39; fees. ... Notably, there must be some nexus to interstate or
foreign commerce-it is a jurisdictional element of a civil RICO claim. Thus,
predicate acts will often occur in several States. ... A plaintiff is required to
demonstrate that the defendant conducted the affairs of an enterprise
though a pattern of racketeering activity. The person and the enterprise
generally must be distinct; but, of course, a Rico person can be a part of an
enterprise.

=== PAGE 38 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Summary
The passage outlines several key elements that must be satisfied for a civil
RICO claim: (1) engagement in a "pattern of racketeering activity" or
"collection of an unlawful debt," (2) a nexus to interstate or foreign
commerce, (3) the defendant must have conducted the affairs of an
enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, and (4) the person and
the enterprise must generally be distinct. These elements are essential for
establishing a civil RICO claim.
Defending RICO Claims In The Business Context Part II: RICO Claims Must
Allege Injury To Business Or Property
Extract
If a plaintiff brings a civil suit alleging a RICO violation, the plaintiff must
plausibly allege that his injury animating the RICO claim is associated with
his business or property by reason of the defendant's violation of the RICO
laws. Absent these allegations, the lawsuit must be dismissed. RICO
standing is distinct from the more well-known concept of constitutional
standing. For RICO claims, in addition to pleading a sufficiently specific
injury, including allegations that the plaintiff has suffered known damages
(as opposed to mere speculative or unprovable damages), the plaintiff must
allege that he suffered an injury to his business or property that bears some
causal relationship to the alleged act or acts that violated RICO.
Summary
For a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim, they must allege an injury to
their business or property that is directly caused by the defendant's violation
of RICO laws. This requirement is distinct from constitutional standing and
necessitates a specific, non-speculative injury with a causal link to the
alleged RICO violation.
Yegiazaryan v. Smagin : RICO Becomes A Tool For Foreign Plaintiffs To
Collect On Arbitration Awards In The U.S.
Extract
To bring a RICO private action, a plaintiff must suffer harm to their business
or property due to a substantive violation of RICO. The Supreme Court held
in RJR Nabisco that a private plaintiff's harm must be a 'domestic injury.'
Summary
For a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim, they must demonstrate harm
to their business or property due to a substantive violation of RICO.

=== PAGE 39 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Additionally, the harm must qualify as a "domestic injury," as clarified by the
Supreme Court in the RJR Nabisco case. This requirement is essential for
establishing standing in a RICO private action.
This Week At The Ninth: Cannabis Law
Extract
The federal illegality of cannabis businesses did, however, mean that
plaintiffs could not establish statutory standing. A RICO plaintiff must show,
among other things, that 'his alleged harm qualifies as injury to his business
or property.' Canyon Cnty. v. Syngenta Seeds, Inc., 519 F.3d 969, 972 (9th
Cir. 2008).
Summary
The passage provides insight into one of the elements required for a civil
RICO claim, which is that the plaintiff must demonstrate an injury to their
business or property. This is a general requirement for establishing statutory
standing under RICO, as highlighted by the reference to the case Canyon
Cnty. v. Syngenta Seeds, Inc.
SCOTUS Clarified RICO's Domestic Injury Requirement, Did Not Create
New Civil Right Of Action For Enforcing Arbitration Awards
Extract
Would-be plaintiffs still must overcome highly-burdensome challenges
inherent in civil RICO claims, including exacting requirements to establish a
RICO enterprise, a pattern of racketeering activity and the elements of
specifically-enumerated predicate acts. When claims are fraud-based (most
civil RICO theories are), the heightened specificity requirements of Rule 9 of
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure compound each of these burdens.
Summary
The passage provides insight into the elements required for a civil RICO
claim, specifically mentioning the need to establish a RICO enterprise, a
pattern of racketeering activity, and the elements of specifically-enumerated
predicate acts. It also highlights the additional burden of heightened
specificity requirements under Rule 9 for fraud-based claims. This
information is directly relevant to understanding the elements necessary for
a plaintiff to prevail in a civil RICO claim.
Open Question: Use Of Stolen Trade Secrets May Or May Not Qualify As A
Predicate Act Under RICO

=== PAGE 40 ===
--- EXTRACTED TEXT ---
Extract
Summary
Clear list of elements that must be alleged by a plaintiff to state a civil RICO
claim. These elements are foundational to any civil RICO claim and are
applicable across cases involving the RICO statute. The passage is directly
relevant to the question as it outlines the necessary components for a civil
RICO claim.
Open Question: Use Of Stolen Trade Secrets May Or May Not Qualify As A
Predicate Act Under RICO
Extract
Summary
The elements required to state a civil RICO claim include: (1) the existence
of an enterprise affecting interstate commerce, (2) the defendant's
employment by or association with the enterprise, (3) the defendant's
participation in the conduct or affairs of the enterprise, and (4) the
defendant's participation through a pattern of racketeering activity that
includes at least two racketeering acts. This information is directly relevant
to understanding the elements necessary for a civil RICO claim.
This memo was compiled by Vincent AI based on vLex materials available as
of June 10, 2025. View full answer on vLex

