NO. 322-744263- 23 
 
IN THE MATTER OF  § IN THE DISTRICT COURT  
THE MARRIAGE OF  §  
 §  
MORGAN MYERS  §  
AND  § 322ND JUDICIAL DISTRICT  
CHARLES MYERS  §  
 §  
AND IN THE INTEREST OF  §  
MARA MYERS AND CAROLINE 
MYERS, CHILDREN  § TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS  
 
SECOND AMENDED PETITION FOR DIVORCE 
 
1. Discovery 
Discovery in this case is intended to be conducted under level 2 of rule 190 of the Texas 
Rules of Civil Procedure. 
Preservation of Evidence:   Respondent is put on notice to preserve and not destroy, 
conceal, or alter any evidence or potential evidence relevant to the issues in this case, including 
tangible documents or items in Respondent's possession or subject to Respondent's control and 
electronic documents, files, or other data generated by or stored on Respondent's home 
computer, work computer, storage media, portable systems, electronic devices, online 
repositories, or cell phone. 
2. Parties 
This suit is brought by MORGAN MYERS, Petitioner. The last three numbers of 
MORGAN MYERS's Social Security number are 893. 
CHARLES MYERS is Respondent. 
3. Domicile 
 Petitioner has been a domiciliary of Texas for the preceding six-month period and a 322-744263-23 FILED
TARRANT COUNTY
11/24/2025 8:46 AM
THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK

resident of this county for the preceding ninety -day period.  
4. Service  
 No service on Respondent is necessary at this time.  
5. Protective Order Statement  
 No protective order under title 4 of the Texas Family Code, protective order under 
subchapter A of chapter 7B of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, or order for emergency 
protection under Article 17.292 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure is in effect in regard to 
a party to  this suit or a child of a party to this suit and no application for any such order is 
pending.  
6. Birth Certificates  
 Certified copies of the children's birth certificates are not available to Petitioner.  
7. Dates of Marriage and Separation  
The parties we re married on or about JUNE 20, 2015 and ceased to live together as 
spouses on or about JANUARY 16, 2024.  
8. Grounds for Divorce  
 The marriage has become insupportable because of discord or conflict of personalities 
between Petitioner and Respondent that d estroys the legitimate ends of the marriage relationship 
and prevents any reasonable expectation of reconciliation.  
 9. Children of the Marriage  
 Petitioner and Respondent are parents of the following children of this marriage who are  
not under the continuing jurisdiction of any other court:  
Name:  MARA MYERS  
Sex:  FEMALE

Birth date:  06/20/2016  
Name:  CAROLINE MYERS  
Sex:  FEMALE  
Birth date:  04/12/2018  
 There are no court -ordered conservatorships, court -ordered guardianships, or other court -
ordered relationships affecting the children the subject of this suit.  
 Information required by section 154.181(b) and section 154.1815 of the Texas Family 
Code will be provided at a later date.  
 No property of consequence is owned or  possessed by the children the subject of this suit.  
 The appointment of Petitioner and Respondent as joint managing conservators would not 
be in the best interest of the children.  Petitioner, on final hearing, should be appointed sole 
managing conservato r, with all the rights and duties of a parent sole managing conservator, and 
Respondent should be ordered to provide support for the children, including the payment of child 
support and medical and dental support in the manner specified by the Court.  Peti tioner requests 
that the payments for the support of the children survive the death of Respondent and become the 
obligation of Respondent's estate.  There should be no restriction on the geographic area within 
which Petitioner may designate the primary res idence of the children.  Alternatively, if the 
primary residence of the children is restricted to a geographic area, that area should include 
Tarrant County, Texas and counties contiguous to Tarrant County, Texas.  
 Preceding the filing of this suit, Respon dent has engaged in a history or pattern of family 
violence, as defined by section 71.004 of the Texas Family Code.  
 Preceding the filing of this suit, Respondent has engaged in a history or pattern of child 
abuse and child neglect.

Petitioner requests th at the Court consider this conduct in appointing Petitioner as sole 
managing conservator or the parties as joint managing conservators.  
 Petitioner requests the Court to order reasonable periods of electronic communication 
between the children and Petition er to supplement Petitioner's periods of possession of and 
access to the children.  
 Respondent has a history or pattern of committing family violence during the two -year 
period preceding the date of filing of this suit.  Petitioner requests the Court to de ny Respondent 
access to the children.  Alternatively, if the Court finds that awarding Respondent access to the 
children would not endanger the children's physical health or emotional welfare and would be in 
the best interest of the children, Petitioner re quests that the Court render a possession order that 
is designed to protect the safety and well -being of the children and any other person who has 
been a victim of family violence committed by Respondent, including but not limited to ordering 
that the peri ods of access be continuously supervised by an entity or person chosen by the Court, 
ordering that the exchange of possession of or access to the children occur in a protective setting, 
ordering Respondent to refrain from the consumption of alcohol or a co ntrolled substance within 
the twelve hours before or during each of Respondent's periods of possession of or access to the 
children, and ordering Respondent to attend and complete a battering intervention and prevention 
program or, if such a program is not  available, to complete a course of treatment with a mental 
health professional in accordance with section 153.010 of the Texas Family Code.  
 There is a history or pattern of child abuse, child neglect, and family violence committed 
by Respondent.  Petitio ner requests the Court to deny Respondent access to the children.  
Alternatively, Petitioner requests that the Court render a possession order that provides that 
Respondent's periods of visitation be continuously supervised by an entity or person chosen by

the Court.  
 Petitioner also requests that the child suppor t owed by Respondent be confirmed at final  
trial.   
10. Division of Community Property  
 Petitioner believes Petitioner and Respondent will enter into an agreement for the 
division of their estate.  If such an agreement is made, Petitioner requests the Court to approve 
the agreement and divide th eir estate in a manner consistent with the agreement.  If such an 
agreement is not made, Petitioner requests the Court to divide their estate in a manner that the 
Court deems just and right, as provided by law.  
 Petitioner should be awarded a disproportion ate share of the parties' estate for the 
following reasons, including but not limited to:  
 a. fault in the breakup of the marriage;  
 
 b. benefits the innocent spouse may have derived from the continuation of the 
marriage;  
 
 c. disparity of earning power of  the spouses and their ability to support themselves;  
 
 d. health of the spouses;  
 
 e. the spouse to whom conservatorship of the children is granted;  
 
 f. needs of the children of the marriage;  
 
 g. education and future employability of the spouses;  
 
 h. community indebtedness and liabilities;  
 
 i. ages of the spouses;  
 
 j. earning power, business opportunities, capacities, and abilities of the spouses;  
 
 k. need for future support;  
 
 l. nature of the property involved in the division; and

m. attorney's fees to be paid.  
 
11. Separate Property  
Petitioner owns certain separate property that is not part of the community estate of the 
parties, and Petitioner requests the Court to confirm that separate property as Petitioner's separate 
property and estate.  
12. Request for Permanent Injunction  
Petitioner requests the Court, after trial on the merits, to grant the following permanent 
injunction:  
 a. Petitioner requests that her contact information and residence information remain 
confidential.  
13. Request for Cha nge of Name  
Petitioner requests a change of name to MORGAN MICHELLE WILSON.  
14. Attorney's Fees, Court Costs, Expenses, and Interest  
 It was necessary for Petitioner to secure the services of Cooper L. Carter, a licensed 
attorney, to prepare and prosecute this suit.  To effect an equitable division of the estate of the 
parties and as a part of the division, and for services rendered in connection with conservatorship 
and support of the children, judgment for reasonable and necessary attorney's fees, court c osts, 
and expenses through trial and appeal should be granted against Respondent and in favor of 
Petitioner for the use and benefit of Petitioner's attorney and be ordered paid directly to 
Petitioner's attorney, who may enforce the judgment in the attorney 's own name.  Petitioner 
requests postjudgment interest as allowed by law.  
 Petitioner also reque sts that the previous attorney ’s fees awarded to her during this case 
be confirmed  at final trial.

15. Prayer  
Petitioner prays that citation and notice issue as required by law and that the Court grant a 
divorce and all other relief requested in this petition.  
 Petitioner prays t hat, on final hearing, the Court enter a permanent injunction enjoining 
Respondent, in conformity with the allegations of this petition, from the acts set forth above.  
 Petitioner prays that Petitioner's name be changed as requested above.  
 Petitioner pray s for attorney's fees, court costs, and expenses as requested above.  
 Petitioner prays for general relief.  
Respectfully submitted,  
 
MARX ALTMAN & JOHNSON  
2905 Lackland Rd.  
FT. WORTH, Texas 76116  
Tel: (817) 926 -6211  
Fax:   (817) 926 -6188  
 
 
 
By: /s/ Cooper L. Carter   
Cooper L. Carter  
State Bar No. 24121530  
coopercarter@majadmin.com  
Attorney for Petitioner

Automated Certificate of eService
This automated certificate of service was created by the efiling system.
The filer served this document via email generated by the efiling system
on the date and to the persons listed below. The rules governing
certificates of service have not changed. Filers must still provide a
certificate of service that complies with all applicable rules.
Roderick Marx on behalf of Cooper Carter
Bar No. 24121530
MAJFIRM@YAHOO.COM
Envelope ID: 108379597
Filing Code Description: Amended Filing
Filing Description: SECOND AMENDED PETITION FOR DIVORCE
Status as of 11/25/2025 10:30 AM CST
Case Contacts
Name
CHARLES MYERS
Cooper L.Carter
HOLLY HAYES
MORGAN MICHELLEMYERSBarNumber Email
chuckdustin12@gmail.com
coopercarter@majadmin.com
csd-legal-914@texasattorneygeneral.gov
MORGANMW02@GMAIL.COMTimestampSubmitted
11/24/2025 8:46:45 AM
11/24/2025 8:46:45 AM
11/24/2025 8:46:45 AM
11/24/2025 8:46:45 AMStatus
SENT
SENT
SENT
SENT