CAUSE NO. 322-744263-23

IN THE MATTER OF § IN THE DISTRICT COURT
THE MARRIAGE OF §

§
MORGAN MYERS §
AND § 322ND JUDICIAL DISTRICT
CHARLES MYERS §

§
AND IN THE INTEREST OF §
MARA MYERS AND _ CAROLINE § TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS
MYERS, CHILDREN

TEMPORARY ORDERS

On February 8, 2024, the Court heard Petitioner's motion for temporary orders.

Appearances
Petitioner, MORGAN MYERS, appeared in person and through attorney of record,

Cooper L. Carter, and announced ready and signed an Associate Judge’s Report regarding

Agreed Temporary Orders.
Respondent, CHARLES MYERS, appeared in person and through attorney of record,

Daniel Bacalis, and announced ready and signed an Associate Judge’s Report regarding Agreed

Temporary Orders.
The parties have agreed to the terms of this order as evidenced by the signatures below.

Jurisdiction

The Court, after examining the record and the agreement of the parties and hearing the
evidence and argument of counsel, finds that all necessary prerequisites of the law have been
legally satisfied and that the Court has jurisdiction of this case and of all the parties.

Children

The following orders are for the safety and welfare and in the best interest of the

following children:

Sex: Female

Birth date: 7 years

Home state: Texas

Sex: Female

Birth date: 5 years

Home state: Texas
Conservatorship

IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS are appointed
Temporary Joint Managing Conservators of the following children: MARA MYERS and
CAROLINE MYERS

IT IS ORDERED that, at all times, MORGAN MYERS, as a parent temporary joint
managing conservator, shall have the following rights:

c the right to receive information from any other conservator of the children
conceming the health, education, and welfare of the children;

2. the right to confer with the other parent to the extent possible before making a
decision concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children;

2. the right of access to medical, dental, psychological, and educational records of
the children;

4. the right to consult with a physician, dentist, or psychologist of the children;

5. the right to consult with school officials concerning the children's welfare and
educational status, including school activities;

6. the right to attend school activities, including school lunches, performances, and
field trips;

7.

the right to be designated on the children's records as a person to be notified in
case of an emergency;

8. the right to consent to medical, dental, and surgical treatment during an

emergency involving an immediate danger to the health and safety of the children, and

9. the right to manage the estates of the children to the extent the estates have beer
created by the parent's family or by the parent, other than by the community or joint property

the parent.
IT IS ORDERED that, at all times, CHARLES MYERS, as a parent temporary joint
managing conservator, shall have the following rights:

iF the right to receive information from any other conservator of the children
concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children,

z. the right to confer with the other parent to the extent possible before making a
decision concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children;

3. the right of access to medical, dental, psychological, and educational records of
the children;

4. the right to consult with a physician, dentist, or psychologist of the children;

5. the right to consult with school officials concerning the children's welfare and
educational status, including school activities;

6. the right to attend school activities, including school lunches, performances, and
field trips;
7. the right to be designated on the children's records as a person to be notified in

case of an emergency;

8. the right to consent to medical, dental, and surgical treatment during an
emergency involving an immediate danger to the health and safety of the children; and

9. the right to manage the estates of the children to the extent the estates have been

ceran by the parent's family or by the parent, other than by the community or joint property of
the parent.

IT IS ORDERED that, at all times, MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS. as
parent temporary joint managing conservators, shall each have the following duties:

1. the duty to inform the other conservator of the

children in a timely manner of
significant information concerning the health, education. and wel ‘

fare of the children;

im the duty to inform the other con

with for at leas

servator of the children if the conservator resi
t thirty days, marries, or intend ine

S to marry a person who the conservator knows is

registered as a sex offender under chapter 62 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure or Is
currently charged with an offense for which on conviction the person would be required to
register under that chapter. IT IS ORDERED that notice of this information shall be provided to
the other conservator of the children as soon as practicable, but not later than the fortieth day
after the date the conservator of the children begins to reside with the person or on the tenth day
after the date the marriage occurs, as appropriate. IT IS ORDERED that the notice must include
a description of the offense that is the basis of the person's requirement to register as a Sex
offender or of the offense with which the person is charged. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR
COMMITS AN OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF THE
CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE;

33 the duty to inform the other conservator of the children if the conservator
establishes a residence with a person who the conservator knows is the subject of a final
protective order sought by an individual other than the conservator that is in effect on the date
the residence with the person is established. IT IS ORDERED that notice of this information
shall be provided to the other conservator of the children as soon as practicable, but not later than
the thirtieth day after the date the conservator establishes residence with the person who is the
subject of the final protective order. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR COMMITS AN
OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF THE CONSERVATOR
FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE,

4. the duty to inform the other conservator of the children if the conservator resides
with, or allows unsupervised access to a child by, a person who is the subject of a final protective
order sought by the conservator after the expiration of sixty-day period following the date the
final protective order is issued. IT IS ORDERED that notice of this information shall be
provided to the other conservator of the children as soon as practicable, but not later than the
ninetieth day after the date the final protective order was issued. WARNING: A
CONSERVATOR COMMITS AN OFFENSE PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C
MISDEMEANOR IF THE CONSERVATOR FAILS TO PROVIDE THIS NOTICE; and

> the duty to inform the other conservator of the children if the conservator is the
subject of a final protective order issued after the date of the order establishing conservatorship.
IT IS ORDERED that notice of this information shall be provided to the other conservator of the
children as soon as practicable, but not later than the thirtieth day after the date the final
protective order was issued. WARNING: A CONSERVATOR COMMITS AN OFFENSE
PUNISHABLE AS A CLASS C MISDEMEANOR IF THE CONSERVATOR FAILS TO
PROVIDE THIS NOTICE. ,

IT IS ORDERED that, during her periods of possession, MORGAN MYERS, as parent
temporary joint managing conservator, shall have the following rights and duties:
1. the duty of care, control, protection, and reasonable discipline of the children;

- the duty to support the children, including providing the children with clothing,
food, shelter, and medical and dental care not involving an invasive procedure;

a the right to consent for the children to medical and dental care not involving an
invasive procedure; and

4. the nght to direct the moral and religious training of the children.

IT IS ORDERED that, during his periods of possession, CHARLES MYERS, as parent
temporary joint managing conservator, shall have the following rights and duties:

i; the duty of care, control, protection, and reasonable discipline of the children;

Z the duty to support the children, including providing the children with clothing,
food, shelter, and medical and dental care not involving an invasive procedure;

3; the right to consent for the children to medical and dental care not involving an
invasive procedure; and

4. the right to direct the moral and religious training of the children.

IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS, as a parent temporary joint managing

conservator, shall have the following rights and duty:

1. the independent right to consent to medical, dental, and surgical treatment
involving invasive procedures;

2. the independent right to consent to psychiatric and psychological treatment of the
children;

3. the independent right to receive and give receipt for periodic payments for the

support of the children and to hold or disburse these funds for the benefit of the children;

4. the independent right to represent the children in legal action and to make other
decisions of substantial legal significance concerning the children;

5. the inde

pendent right to consent to marriage and to enlistment in the arm
of the United States; ed forces

6. the independent right to make decisions conceming the children's education;

7. except as provided by section 264.011]

. ; of the Texas Famil
independent right to the services and earnings of the children; ny Code, the

8. except when a guardian of the children's estates or a guardi
has been appointed for the children, the indepen <r fm a litem

dent right to act as an agent of the children in

relation to the children's estates if the children's action is required by a state, the United States, or
a foreign government;

9. the right, subject to the agreement of the other conservator, to apply for passports
for the children, to renew the children's passports, and to maintain possession of the children's
passports; and

10. the independent duty to manage the estates of the children to the extent the estates
have been created by the community or joint property of the parent.

IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS, as a parent temporary joint managing
conservator, shall have the following rights and duty:

iL. the independent right to consent to medical, dental, and surgical treatment
involving invasive procedures;

2. the independent right to consent to psychiatric and psychological treatment of the
children;
3. the independent right to receive and give receipt for periodic payments for the

support of the children and to hold or disburse these funds for the benefit of the children;

4. the independent right to represent the children in legal action and to make other
decisions of substantial legal significance concerning the children;

_; the independent right to consent to marriage and to enlistment in the armed forces
of the United States;

6. the independent right to make decisions concerning the children's education;

7. except as provided by section 264.0111 of the Texas Family Code, the
independent right to the services and earnings of the children;

8. except when a guardian of the children's estates or a guardian or attorney ad litem
has been appointed for the children, the independent right to act as an agent of the children in
relation to the children's estates if the children's action is required by a state, the United States, or
a foreign government;

9. the right, subject to the agreement of the other conservator, to apply for passports
for the children, to renew the children's passports, and to maintain possession of the children's
passports; and

10. the independent duty to manage the estates of the children to the extent the estates
have been created by the community or joint property of the parent.

Notwithstanding any provision in this order to the contrary, IT IS ORDERED that
MORGAN MYERS shall have the exclusive right to enroll the children in school. Each
conservator, during that conservator's period of possession, is ORDERED to ensure the
children's attendance in the schools in which MORGAN MYERS has enrolled the children.

The Court finds that, in accordance with section 153.001 of the Texas Family Code, it is
the public policy of Texas to assure that children will have frequent and continuing contact with
parents who have shown the ability to act in the best interest of the child; to provide a safe,
stable, and nonviolent environment for the child; and to encourage parents to share in the rights
and duties of raising their child after the parents have separated or dissolved their marriage. IT
IS ORDERED that the primary residence of the children shall be within Tarrant County, Texas,
and counties contiguous to Tarrant County, Texas, and the parties shall not remove the children
from Tarrant County, Texas, and counties contiguous to Tarrant County, Texas for the purpose
of changing the primary residence of the children until this geographic restriction is modified by
further order of the court of continuing jurisdiction or by a written agreement that is signed by
the parties and filed with that court.

Except as expressly provided otherwise in this temporary order, IT IS ORDERED that all
information of which a conservator is required to notify the other conservator and all documents
and information that a conservator is required to provide to the other conservator shall be sent in

the following manner:

a. delivery to the recipient at the recipient's electronic mail address as

follows or to such other electronic mail address subsequently designated

by the recipient:

MORGAN MYERS morganm202@gmail.com

CHARLES MYERS chuckdustic!2@gmail.com
and in the event of any change in a recipient's electronic mail address, that
recipient is ORDERED to notify the other recipient of such change in

writing within twenty-four hours after the change.

If a party applies for a passport for the children, that party, is ORDERED to notify the
other party of that fact no later than 10 days after the application.

IT IS ORDERED that if a parent's consent is required for the issuance or renewal of a
passport, that parent shall provide that consent in writing no later than ten days after receipt of
the consent documents, unless the parent has good cause for withholding that consent.
Possession and Access

IT IS ORDERED that nothing in this order shall supercede any term of any
protective order or condition of bond, probation, or parole.

1. Standard Possession Order

IT IS ORDERED that each conservator shall comply with all terms and
conditions of this Standard Possession Order. IT IS ORDERED that this Standard
Possession Order is effective immediately and applies to all periods of possession
occurring on and after the date the Court signs this Standard Possession Order. IT IS,
THEREFORE, ORDERED:

(a) Definitions

1. In this Standard Possession Order "school" means the elementary
or secondary school in which the child is enrolled or, if the child is not enrolled in
an elementary or secondary school, the public school district in which the child
primarily resides.

2. In this Standard Possession Order "child" includes each child,
whether one or more, who is a subject of this suit while that child is under the age
of eighteen years and not otherwise emancipated.

(b) | Mutual Agreement or Specified Terms for Possession

IT IS ORDERED that the conservators shall have possession of the child
at times mutually agreed to in advance by the parties, and, in the absence of

mutual agreement, it is ORDERED that the conservators shall have possession of
the child under the specified terms set out in this Standard Possession Order.

(c) When Parents Reside 50 Miles or Less Apart

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
when CHARLES MYERS resides 50 miles or less from the primary residence of
the child, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as
follows:

iB Weekends —

On weekends that occur during the regular school term, beginning at the
time the child's school is regularly dismissed, on the first, third, and fifth Friday of
each month and ending at the time the child's school resumes after the weekend.

On weekends that do not occur during the regular school term, beginning
at 6:00 P.M., on the first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at 6:00

P.M. on the following Sunday.
2. Weekend Possession Extended by a Holiday —

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student
holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on a Friday during the regular school
term, as determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a federal,
state, or local holiday that falls on a Friday during the summer months when
school is not in session, that weekend period of possession shall begin at the time
the child's school is regularly dismissed on the Thursday immediately preceding
the student holiday or teacher in-service day and 6:00 p.m. on the Thursday
immediately preceding the federal, state, or local holiday during the summer

months.

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a student holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on
a Monday during the regular school term, as determined by the school in which
the child is enrolled, or a federal, state, or local holiday that falls on a Monday
during the summer months when school is not in session, that weekend period of
possession shall end at 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday.

3. Thursdays - On Thursday of each week during the regular school
term, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed and ending at
the time the child's school resumes on Friday.

4. Spring Vacation in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered

years, beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the day before school resumes after that vacation.

5; Extended Summer Possession by CHARLES MYERS —

With Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS gives MORGAN
MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended period or
periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have
possession of the child for thirty days beginning no earlier than the day after the
child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and ending no later than seven
days before school resumes at the end of the summer vacation in that year, to be
exercised in no more than two separate periods of at least seven consecutive days
each, as specified in the written notice. These periods of possession shall begin
and end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day.

Without Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS does not give
MORGAN MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended
period or periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall
have possession of the child for thirty consecutive days in that year beginning at
6:00 P.M. on July 1 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on July 31.

Notwithstanding the Thursday periods of possession during the regular
school term and the weekend periods of possession ORDERED for CHARLES
MYERS, it is expressly ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall have a
superior right of possession of the child as follows:

ie Spring Vacation in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered
years, beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the day before school resumes after that vacation.

2. Summer Weekend Possession by MORGAN MYERS - [If
MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by Apnl 15 of a
year, MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the child on any one weekend
beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the following
Sunday during any one period of the extended summer possession by CHARLES
MYERS in that year, provided that MORGAN MYERS picks up the child from
CHARLES MYERS and returns the child to that same place and that the weekend
so designated does not interfere with Father's Day possession. Not later than the
fifteenth day before the Friday that begins the designated weekend, CHARLES
MYERS must give MORGAN MYERS written notice of the location at which
MORGAN MYERS is to pick up and return the child.

3. Extended Summer Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If
MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a
year or gives CHARLES MYERS fourteen days' written notice on or after April
16 of a year, MORGAN MYERS may designate one weekend beginning no

earlier than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation
and ending no later than seven days before school resumes at the end of the
summer vacation, during which an otherwise scheduled weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS shall not take place in that year, provided that
the weekend so designated does not interfere with CHARLES MYERS's period or
periods of extended summer possession or with Father's Day possession.

Notwithstanding the weekend and Thursday periods of possession of
CHARLES MYERS, MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS shall have the
right to possession of the child as follows:

is Christmas Holidays in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered
years, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child
beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas school
vacation and ending at noon on December 28, and MORGAN MYERS shall have
the right to possession of the child beginning at noon on December 28 and ending
at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that Christmas school
vacation.

a5 Christmas Holidays in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered
years, MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child
beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas school
vacation and ending at noon on December 28, and CHARLES MYERS shall have
the right to possession of the child beginning at noon on December 28 and ending
at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that Christmas school
vacation.

3: Thanksgiving in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years,
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at
the time the child's school is dismissed before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the Sunday following Thanksgiving.

4. Thanksgiving in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered years,
MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at
the time the child's school is dismissed before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the Sunday following Thanksgiving.

5. Child's Birthday - If a parent is not otherwise entitled under this
Standard Possession Order to present possession of a child on the child's birthday,
that parent shall have possession of the child and the child's minor siblings
beginning at 6:00 P.M. and ending at 8:00 P.M. on that day, provided that that
parent picks up the child from the other parent's residence and returns the child to
that same place.

6. Father's Day - CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to
possession of the child each year, beginning at 6:00 P.M. on the Friday preceding

Father's Day and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the Monday after Father's Day, provided
that if CHARLES MYERS is not otherwise entitled under this Standard
Possession Order to present possession of the child, he shall pick up the child
from MORGAN MYERS's residence and return the child to that same place.

7. Mother's Day - MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to
possession of the child each year, beginning at the time the child's school is
regularly dismissed on the Friday preceding Mother's Day and ending at the time
the child's school resumes after Mother's Day, provided that if MORGAN
MYERS is not otherwise entitled under this Standard Possession Order to present
possession of the child, she shall pick up the child from CHARLES MYERS's
residence and return the child to that same place.

(d) | When Parents Reside More than 50 Miles but 100 Miles or Less Apart

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
when CHARLES MYERS resides more than 50 Miles but 100 miles or less from
the primary residence of the child, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to

possession of the child as follows:
1. Weekends —

On weekends that occur during the regular school term, beginning at the
time the child's school is regularly dismissed, on the first, third, and fifth Friday of
each month and ending at the time the child's school resumes after the weekend.

On weekends that do not occur during the regular school term, beginning
at 6:00 P.M., on the first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the following Sunday.

2: Weekend Possession Extended by a Holiday —

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student
holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on a Friday during the regular school
term, as determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a federal,
state, or local holiday that falls on a Friday during the summer months when
school is not in session, that weekend period of possession shall begin at the time
the child's school is regularly dismissed on the Thursday immediately preceding
the student holiday or teacher in-service day and 6:00 p.m. on the Thursday
immediately preceding the federal, state, or local holiday during the summer
months.

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a student holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on

a Monday during the regular school term, as determined by the school in which
the child is enrolled, that weekend period of possession shall end at 8:00 a.m. on
Tuesday.

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a federal, state, or local holiday that falls on a Monday
during the summer months when school is not in session, that weekend period of
possession shall end at 6:00 P.M. on that Monday.

3. Thursdays - On Thursday of each week during the regular school
term, beginning at the time the child's school is regularly dismissed and ending at
the time the child's school resumes on Friday.

4. Spring Vacation in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered
years, beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the school's spring
vacation and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that
vacation.

5: Extended Summer Possession by CHARLES MYERS —

With Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS gives MORGAN
MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended period or
periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have
possession of the child for thirty days beginning no earlier than the day after the
child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and ending no later than seven
days before school resumes at the end of the summer vacation in that year, to be
exercised in no more than two separate periods of at least seven consecutive days
each, as specified in the written notice. These periods of possession shall begin
and end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day.

Without Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS does not give
MORGAN MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended
period or periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall
have possession of the child for thirty consecutive days in that year beginning at
6:00 P.M. on July 1 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on July 31.

Notwithstanding the Thursday periods of possession during the regular
school term and the weekend periods of possession ORDERED for CHARLES
MYERS, it is expressly ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall have a
superior right of possession of the child as follows:

1. Spring Vacation in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered
years, beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the school's spring
vacation and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that
vacation.

ee

vz Summer Weekend Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If
MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a
year, MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the child on any one weekend
beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the following
Sunday during any one period of the extended summer possession by CHARLES
MYERS in that year, provided that MORGAN MYERS picks up the child from
CHARLES MYERS and returns the child to that same place and that the weekend
so designated does not interfere with Father's Day possession. Not later than the
fifteenth day before the Friday that begins the designated weekend, CHARLES
MYERS must give MORGAN MYERS written notice of the location at which
MORGAN MYERS is to pick up and return the child.

3: Extended Summer Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If
MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a
year or gives CHARLES MYERS fourteen days' written notice on or after April
16 of a year, MORGAN MYERS may designate one weekend beginning no
earlier than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation
and ending no later than seven days before school resumes at the end of the
summer vacation, during which an otherwise scheduled weekend period of
possession by CHARLES MYERS shall not take place in that year, provided that
the weekend so designated does not interfere with CHARLES MYERS's period or
periods of extended summer possession or with Father's Day possession.

(e) Parents Who Reside More Than 100 Miles Apart

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
when CHARLES MYERS resides more than 100 miles from the residence of the
child, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as
follows:

1. Weekends - Unless CHARLES MYERS elects the alternative
period of weekend possession described in the next paragraph, CHARLES
MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child on weekends beginning at
6:00 P.M., on the first, third, and fifth Friday of each month and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the following Sunday.

Alternate Weekend Possession - In lieu of the weekend possession
described in the foregoing paragraph, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to
possession of the child not more than one weekend per month of CHARLES
MYERS's choice beginning at 6:00 P.M. on the day school recesses for the
weekend and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after the
weekend. CHARLES MYERS may elect an option for this alternative period of
weekend possession by giving written notice to MORGAN MYERS within ninety
days after the parties begin to reside more than 100 miles apart. If CHARLES
MYERS makes this election, CHARLES MYERS shall give MORGAN MYERS

fourteen days' written or telephonic notice preceding a designated weekend. The
weekends chosen shall not conflict with the provisions regarding Christmas,
Thanksgiving, the child's birthday, and Mother's Day possession below.

Z Weekend Possession Extended by a Holiday —

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS begins on a student
holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on a Friday during the regular school
term, as determined by the school in which the child is enrolled, or a federal,
state, or local holiday during the summer months when school is not in session,
that weekend period of possession shall begin at the time the child's school is
regularly dismissed on the Thursday immediately preceding the student holiday or
teacher in-service day and 6:00 p.m. on the Thursday immediately preceding the
federal, state, or local holiday during the summer months

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a student holiday or a teacher in-service day that falls on
a Monday during the regular school term, as determined by the school in which
the child is enrolled, that weekend period of possession shall end at 8:00 a.m. on
Tuesday.

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
if a weekend period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends on or is
immediately followed by a federal, state, or local holiday that falls on a Monday
during the summer months when school is not in session, that weekend period of
possession shall end at 6:00 P.M. on that Monday.

z Spring Vacation in All Years - Every year, beginning at 6:00 P.M.
on the day the child is dismissed from school for the school's spring vacation and
ending at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that vacation.

4. Extended Summer Possession by CHARLES MYERS —

With Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS gives MORGAN
MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended period or
periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall have
possession of the child for forty-two days beginning no earlier than the day after
the child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and ending no later than
seven days before school resumes at the end of the summer vacation in that year,
to be exercised in no more than two separate periods of at least seven consecutive
days each, as specified in the written notice. These periods of possession shall
begin and end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day.

Without Written Notice by April 1 - If CHARLES MYERS does not give

MORGAN MYERS written notice by April 1 of a year specifying an extended
period or periods of summer possession for that year, CHARLES MYERS shall
have possession of the child for forty-two consecutive days beginning at 6:00
P.M. on June 15 and ending at 6:00 P.M. on July 27 of that year.

Notwithstanding the weekend periods of possession ORDERED for
CHARLES MYERS, it is expressly ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall
have a superior right of possession of the child as follows:

1. Summer Weekend Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If
MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a
year, MORGAN MYERS shall have possession of the child on any one weekend
beginning at 6:00 P.M. on Friday and ending at 6:00 P.M. on the following
Sunday during any one period of possession by CHARLES MYERS during
CHARLES MYERS's extended summer possession in that year, provided that if a
period of possession by CHARLES MYERS in that year exceeds thirty days,
MORGAN MYERS may have possession of the child under the terms of this
provision on any two nonconsecutive weekends during that period and provided
that MORGAN MYERS picks up the child from CHARLES MYERS and returns
the child to that same place and that the weekend so designated does not interfere

with Father's Day possession.

2. Extended Summer Possession by MORGAN MYERS - If
MORGAN MYERS gives CHARLES MYERS written notice by April 15 of a
year, MORGAN MYERS may designate twenty-one days beginning no earlier
than the day after the child's school is dismissed for the summer vacation and
ending no later than seven days before school resumes at the end of the summer
vacation in that year, to be exercised in no more than two separate periods of at
least seven consecutive days each, during which CHARLES MYERS shall not
have possession of the child, provided that the period or periods so designated do
not interfere with CHARLES MYERS's period or periods of extended summer
possession or with Father's Day possession. These periods of possession shall
begin and end at 6:00 P.M. on each applicable day.

(f) Holidays

Notwithstanding the weekend and Thursday periods of possession of
CHARLES MYERS, except when CHARLES MYERS resides fifty miles or less
from the primary residence of the child, MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES
MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child as follows:

I. Christmas Holidays in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered
years, CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child
beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas school
vacation and ending at noon on December 28, and MORGAN MYERS shall have
the right to possession of the child beginning at noon on December 28 and ending

at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that Christmas school
vacation.

Zz Christmas Holidays in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered
years, MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child
beginning at the time the child's school is dismissed for the Christmas school
vacation and ending at noon on December 28, and CHARLES MYERS shall have
the right to possession of the child beginning at noon on December 28 and ending
at 6:00 P.M. on the day before school resumes after that Christmas school
vacation.

3 Thanksgiving in Odd-Numbered Years - In odd-numbered years,
CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at
the time the child's school is dismissed before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the Sunday following Thanksgiving.

4. Thanksgiving in Even-Numbered Years - In even-numbered years,
MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to possession of the child beginning at
the time the child's school is dismissed before Thanksgiving and ending at 6:00
P.M. on the Sunday following Thanksgiving.

5: Child's Birthday - If a parent is not otherwise entitled under this
Standard Possession Order to present possession of a child on the child's birthday,
that parent shall have possession of the child and the child's minor siblings
beginning at 6:00 P.M. and ending at 8:00 P.M. on that day, provided that that
parent picks up the child from the other parent's residence and returns the child to
that same place.

6. Father's Day - CHARLES MYERS shall have the right to
possession of the child each year, beginning at 6:00 P.M. on the Friday preceding
Father's Day and ending at 8:00 a.m. on the Monday after Father's Day, provided
that if CHARLES MYERS is not otherwise entitled under this Standard
Possession Order to present possession of the child, he shall pick up the child
from MORGAN MYERS's residence and return the child to that same place.

fe Mother's Day - MORGAN MYERS shall have the right to
possession of the child each year, beginning at the time the child's school is
regularly dismissed on the Friday preceding Mother's Day and ending at the time
the child's school resumes after Mother's Day, provided that if MORGAN
MYERS is not otherwise entitled under this Standard Possession Order to present
possession of the child, she shall pick up the child from CHARLES MYERS's
residence and return the child to that same place.

(g) | Undesignated Periods of Possession

MORGAN MYERS shall have the right of possession of the child at all

other times not specifically designated in this Standard Possession Order for
CHARLES MYERS.

(h) General Terms and Conditions

Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Standard Possession Order,
the terms and conditions of possession of the child that apply regardless of the
distance between the residence of a parent and the child are as follows:

1. Surrender of Child by MORGAN MYERS - MORGAN MYERS
is ORDERED to surrender the child to CHARLES MYERS at the beginning of
each period of CHARLES MYERS's possession at the residence of MORGAN
MYERS.

If a period of possession by CHARLES MYERS begins at the time the
child's school is regularly dismissed, MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to
surrender the child to CHARLES MYERS at the beginning of each such period of
possession at the school in which the child is enrolled. If the child is not
physically attending school, CHARLES MYERS shall pick up the child at the
residence of MORGAN MYERS at 6:00 P.M., and MORGAN MYERS is
ORDERED to surrender the child to CHARLES MYERS at the residence of
MORGAN MYERS at 6:00 P.M. under these circumstances.

2. Surrender of Child by CHARLES MYERS - CHARLES MYERS
is ORDERED to surrender the child to MORGAN MYERS at the residence of
CHARLES MYERS at the end of each period of possession.

If a period of possession by CHARLES MYERS ends at the time the
child's school resumes, CHARLES MYERS is ORDERED to surrender the child
to MORGAN MYERS at the end of each such period of possession at the school
in which the child is enrolled or, if the child is not physically attending school, at
the residence of MORGAN MYERS at 6:00 P.M.

3. Surrender of Child by CHARLES MYERS - CHARLES MYERS
is ORDERED to surrender the child to MORGAN MYERS, if the child is in
CHARLES MYERS's possession or subject to CHARLES MYERS's control, at
the beginning of each period of MORGAN MYERS's exclusive periods of
possession, at the place designated in this Standard Possession Order.

4. Return of Child by MORGAN MYERS - MORGAN MYERS is
ORDERED to return the child to CHARLES MYERS, if CHARLES MYERS is
entitled to possession of the child, at the end of each of MORGAN MYERS's
exclusive periods of possession, at the place designated in this Standard
Possession Order.

5. Personal Effects - Each conservator is ORDERED to return with

the child the personal effects that the child brought at the beginning of the period
of possession.

6. Designation of Competent Adult - Each conservator may designate
any competent adult to pick up and return the child, as applicable. IT IS
ORDERED that a conservator or a designated competent adult be present when
the child is picked up or returned.

7. Inability to Exercise Possession - Each conservator is ORDERED
to give notice to the person in possession of the child on each occasion that the
conservator will be unable to exercise that conservator's right of possession for
any specified period.

8. Written Notice - Written notice, including notice provided by
electronic mail or facsimile or as otherwise authorized in this order, shall be
deemed to have been timely made if received or, if applicable, postmarked before
or at the time that notice is due. Each conservator is ORDERED to notify the

other conservator of any change in the conservator's electronic mail address or
facsimile number within twenty-four hours after the change.

9. Notice to School and MORGAN MYERS - If CHARLES
MYERS's time of possession of the child ends at the time school resumes and for
any reason the child is not or will not be returned to school, CHARLES MYERS
shall immediately notify the school and MORGAN MYERS that the child will not
be or has not been returned to school.
This concludes the Standard Possession Order.
2: Duration
The periods of possession ordered above apply to each child the subject of this
suit while that child is under the age of eighteen years and not otherwise emancipated.
Child Support
IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS pay to MORGAN MYERS for the support of
MARA MYERS and CAROLINE MYERS nine hundred seventy-three dollars and nineteen
cents ($973.19) per month, with the first payment being due and payable on April 1, 2024 and a
like payment being due and payable on the first day of each month thereafter until further order

of this Court.

Withholding from Eamings
IT IS ORDERED that any employer of CHARLES MYERS shall be ordered to withhold

the child support payments ordered in this order from the disposable earnings of CHARLES
MYERS for the support of MARA MYERS and CAROLINE MYERS.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that all amounts withheld from the disposable earnings of
CHARLES MYERS by the employer and paid in accordance with the order to that employer
shall constitute a credit against the child support obligation. Payment of the full amount of child
support ordered paid by this order through the means of withholding from earnings shall
discharge the child support obligation. If the amount withheld from earnings and credited
against the child support obligation is less than 100 percent of the amount ordered to be paid by
this order, the balance due remains an obligation of CHARLES MYERS, and it is hereby
ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS pay the balance due directly as specified below.

On this date the Court signed an Income Withholding for Support.

Payment

IT IS ORDERED that all payments shall be made through the state disbursement unit at
Texas Child Support Disbursement Unit, P.O. Box 659791, San Antonio, Texas 78265-9791, and
thereafter promptly remitted to MORGAN MYERS for the support of the children. IT IS
ORDERED that all payments shall be made payable to the Office of the Attorney General and
include the ten-digit Office of the Attorney General case number (if available), the cause number
of this suit, CHARLES MYERS's name as the name of the noncustodial parent (NCP), and
MORGAN MYERS's name as the name of the custodial parent (CP). Payment options are found
on the Office of the Attomey General's website at www.texasattorneygeneral.gov/cs/payment-

options-and-types.

IT IS ORDERED that each party shall pay, when due, all fees charged to that party by the
state disbursement unit and any other agency statutorily authorized to charge a fee.

Change of Employment

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS shall notify this Court and
MORGAN MYERS by U.S. certified mail, return receipt requested, of any change of address
and of any termination of employment. This notice shall be given no later than seven days after
the change of address or the termination of employment. This notice or a subsequent notice shall
also provide the current address of CHARLES MYERS and the name and address of his current
employer, whenever that information becomes available.

Clerk's Duties

IT IS ORDERED that, on the request of a prosecuting attorney, the title IV-D agency, the
friend of the Court, a domestic relations office, MORGAN MYERS, CHARLES MYERS, or an
attorney representing MORGAN MYERS or CHARLES MYERS, the clerk of this Court shall
cause a certified copy of the Income Withholding for Support to be delivered to any employer.
Medical and Dental Support

1. IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS shall each
provide additional child support for each child as set out in this order for as long as the Court
may order MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS to provide support for the child under
sections 154.001 and 154.002 of the Texas Family Code. Beginning on the day MORGAN
MYERS and CHARLES MYERS's actual or potential obligation to support a child under
sections 154.001 and 154.002 of the Family Code terminates, IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN
MYERS and CHARLES MYERS are discharged from these obligations with respect to that

child, except for any failure by a parent to fully comply with these obligations before that date.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the additional child support payments for costs of health and
dental insurance ordered below are payable through the state disbursement unit or as directed
below and subject to the provisions for withholding from earnings provided above for other child
support payments.

2. Definitions -

"Health Insurance" means insurance coverage that provides basic health-care services,
including usual physician services, office visits, hospitalization, and laboratory, X-ray, and
emergency services, that may be provided through a health maintenance organization or other
private or public organization, other than medical assistance under chapter 32 of the Texas
Human Resources Code.

"Reasonable cost" means the total cost of health insurance coverage for all children for
which MORGAN MYERS is responsible under a medical support order that does not exceed 9
percent of MORGAN MYERS's annual resources, as described by section 154.062(b) of the
Texas Family Code.

"Health-care expenses" include, without limitation, medical, surgical, prescription drug,
mental health-care services, dental, eye care, ophthalmological, and orthodontic charges but do
not include expenses for travel to and from the provider or for nonprescription medication.

"Health-care expenses that are not reimbursed by insurance" ("unreimbursed expenses")
include related copayments and deductibles.

3: Findings on Availability of Health Insurance - Having considered the cost,
accessibility, and quality of health insurance coverage available to the parties, the Court finds:

IT IS FURTHER FOUND that the following orders regarding health-care coverage are in

the best interest of the children.

4. ‘Provision of Health-Care Coverage —

As Petitioner’s child support, MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED to obtain Medicaid for

the children the subject of this suit, and then maintain health insurance for the children as long as

child support is payable for that child. MORGAN MYERS is ORDERED —

a. to provide to each conservator of the children the following information no later

than the thirtieth day after she received Medicaid for the children:

a. MORGA MYERS’ Social Security number;

b. Proof that health insurance has been provided for the children;

c. The following information and documents:

i.
il.
iii.
iv.
V.
Vi.

Vil.

The name of the health insurance carrier;
The number of the policy;

A copy of the policy;

A schedule of benefits;

A health insurance membership card;
Claim forms; and

Any other information necessary to submit a claim; and

d. To provide each conservator of the children with a copy of any

renewals or changes to the health insurance coverage of the children

and any additional information regarding health insurance coverage

of the children no later than the fifteenth day after MORGAN

MYERS receives or is provided with the renewal, change, or

additional information;

e. To notify each conservator of the children of any termination or

lapse of health insurance coverage of the children no later than the
fifteenth day after the date of the termination or lapse;

f. After termination or lapse of health insurance coverage, to notify
each conservator of the children of the availability to MORGAN
MYERS of additional health insurance for the children no later than
the fifteenth day after the date the insurance becomes available;

g. After termination or lapse of health insurance coverage, to enroll the
children in a health insurance plan that is available to MORGAN
MYERS at a reasonable cost at the next available enrollment period.

Pursuant to section 1504.051 of the Texas Insurance Code, IT IS ORDERED that if
MORGAN MYERS is eligible for dependent health coverage but fails to apply to obtain
coverage for the children, the insurer shall enroll the children on application of CHARLES
MYERS or others authorized by law.

5: Allocation of Unreimbursed Expenses -

The conservator who incurs a health-care expense on behalf of a child is ORDERED to
provide to the other conservator receipts, bills, statements, or explanations of benefits showing
the uninsured portion of the health-care expenses within thirty days after the incurring
conservator receives them. The nonincurring conservator is ORDERED to pay the non-incurring
conservators percentage of the unreimbursed portion of the health-care expenses either by
paying the health-care provider directly or by reimbursing the incurring conservator for any
advance payment exceeding the incurring conservator's percentage of the unreimbursed portion
of the health-care expenses within thirty days after the nonincurring conservator receives

receipts, bills, statements, or explanations of benefits showing the unreimbursed portion of the

health-care expense.

For the Court to hold the nonincurring conservator in civil or criminal contempt for
failing to pay the nonincurring conservator's percentage of the unreimbursed portion of a health-
care expense, the incurring conservator must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
nonincurring conservator personally received receipts, bills, statements, or explanations of
benefits reflecting the unreimbursed portion of the health-care expense no later than thirty days
after the incurring conservator received them. Even if the incurring conservator fails to meet that
burden of proof, the Court may award the incurring conservator a judgment in the nature of child
support against the nonincurring conservator in the amount of the unreimbursed portion of the
heath-care expense the nonincurring conservator was ordered but fail to pay.

6. WARNING - A PARENT ORDERED TO PROVIDE HEALTH INSURANCE
OR DENTAL INSURANCE OR TO PAY THE OTHER PARENT ADDITIONAL CHILD
SUPPORT FOR THE COST OF HEALTH INSURANCE OR DENTAL INSURANCE WHO
FAILS TO DO SO IS LIABLE FOR NECESSARY MEDICAL EXPENSES OF THE
CHILDREN, WITHOUT REGARD TO WHETHER THE EXPENSES WOULD HAVE BEEN
PAID IF HEALTH INSURANCE OR DENTAL INSURANCE HAD BEEN PROVIDED, AND
FOR THE COST OF HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUMS, DENTAL INSURANCE
PREMIUMS, OR CONTRIBUTIONS, IF ANY, PAID ON BEHALF OF THE CHILDREN.

$f Notice to Employer - On this date a Medical Support Notice was signed by the
Court. For the purpose of section 1169 of title 29 of the United States Code, the conservator not
carrying the health or dental insurance policy is designated the custodial parent and alternate

recipient's representative.

No Termination of Orders on Death of Obligee

An obligation to pay child support under this order does not terminate on the death of
MORGAN MYERS but continues as an obligation to MARA MYERS and CAROLINE
MYERS.
Other Child Related Provisions

Required Notices

NOTICE TO ANY PEACE OFFICER OF THE STATE OF TEXAS: YOU MAY USE
REASONABLE EFFORTS TO ENFORCE THE TERMS OF CHILD CUSTODY SPECIFIED
IN THIS ORDER. A PEACE OFFICER WHO RELIES ON THE TERMS OF A COURT
ORDER AND THE OFFICER'S AGENCY ARE ENTITLED TO THE APPLICABLE
IMMUNITY AGAINST ANY CLAIM, CIVIL OR OTHERWISE, REGARDING THE
OFFICER'S GOOD FAITH ACTS PERFORMED IN THE SCOPE OF THE OFFICER'S
DUTIES IN ENFORCING THE TERMS OF THE ORDER THAT RELATE TO CHILD
CUSTODY. ANY PERSON WHO KNOWINGLY PRESENTS FOR ENFORCEMENT AN
ORDER THAT IS INVALID OR NO LONGER IN EFFECT COMMITS AN OFFENSE THAT
MAY BE PUNISHABLE BY CONFINEMENT IN JAIL FOR AS LONG AS TWO YEARS
AND A FINE OF AS MUCH AS $10,000.

THE COURT MAY MODIFY THIS ORDER THAT PROVIDES FOR THE SUPPORT
OF A CHILD, IF:

(1) |THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CHILD OR A PERSON AFFECTED BY
THE ORDER HAVE MATERIALLY AND SUBSTANTIALLY CHANGED; OR

(2) IT HAS BEEN THREE YEARS SINCE THE ORDER WAS RENDERED OR

LAST MODIFIED AND THE MONTHLY AMOUNT OF THE CHILD SUPPORT AWARD

UNDER THE ORDER DIFFERS BY EITHER 20 PERCENT OR $100 FROM THE AMOUNT
THAT WOULD BE AWARDED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CHILD SUPPORT
GUIDELINES.

Warnings to Parties

WARNINGS TO PARTIES: FAILURE TO OBEY A COURT ORDER FOR CHILD
SUPPORT OR FOR POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A CHILD MAY RESULT IN
FURTHER LITIGATION TO ENFORCE THE ORDER, INCLUDING CONTEMPT OF
COURT. A FINDING OF CONTEMPT MAY BE PUNISHED BY CONFINEMENT IN JAIL
FOR UP TO SIX MONTHS, A FINE OF UP TO $500 FOR EACH VIOLATION, AND A
MONEY JUDGMENT FOR PAYMENT OF ATTORNEY'S FEES AND COURT COSTS.

FAILURE OF A PARTY TO MAKE A CHILD SUPPORT PAYMENT TO THE
PLACE AND IN THE MANNER REQUIRED BY A COURT ORDER MAY RESULT IN THE
PARTY'S NOT RECEIVING CREDIT FOR MAKING THE PAYMENT.

FAILURE OF A PARTY TO PAY CHILD SUPPORT DOES NOT JUSTIFY
DENYING THAT PARTY COURT-ORDERED POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A
CHILD. REFUSAL BY A PARTY TO ALLOW POSSESSION OF OR ACCESS TO A
CHILD DOES NOT JUSTIFY FAILURE TO PAY COURT-ORDERED CHILD SUPPORT TO
THAT PARTY.

Property and Parties

The Court finds that the following orders respecting the property and parties are
necessary and equitable.

IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS shall be responsible for the timely payment of

the following:

G The auto insurance for the vehicle in her possession;
2. the monthly payment for her cell phone;
3: the rent payment for the residence located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga,
Texas beginning after March 30, 2024.

IT IS ORDERED that CHARLES MYERS shall be responsible for the timely payment of

the following:

1. The auto insurance for the 2021 Mazda, the 2023 Mazda, and any other
vehicle currently in his possession;
2; the car payments for the 2021 Mazda, the 2023 Mazda, and any other
vehicle currently in his possession;
5) the monthly payment for his cell phone;
4. the rent payment for the residence located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga,
Texas for February and March 2024.

IT IS ORDERED that Petitioner have the exclusive and private use and possession of the
following property while this case is pending: the personal property and clothing in her
possession, the 2007 Mazda motor vehicle currently in her possession, and the residence located
at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga, Texas beginning March 30, 2024.

IT IS ORDERED that Respondent have the exclusive and private use and possession of
the following property while this case is pending: the personal property and clothing in his
possession, the 2021 Mazda motor vehicle, the 2023 Mazda motor vehicle, and the residence
located at 6641 Anns Court, Watauga, Texas ONLY until March 20, 2024.

Co-Parenting Website

IT IS ORDERED that the parties are to attend “Children in the Middle” part 1 and/or 2

by May 1, 2024, and file a certificate of completion with the Court for their attendance to this co-
parenting class.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that each party shall be solely liable for their own costs for
the attendance of this co-parenting class.

App Close

IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS each shall, within
ten days after the entry of the Associate Judge’s Report is signed by the Court, obtain at his/her
sole expense a subscription to the AppClose program. IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that
MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS each shall maintain that subscription in full force
and effect for as long as the child is under the age of eighteen years and not otherwise
emancipated.

IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS shall each
communicate through the AppClose program with regard to all communication regarding the
children, except in the case of emergency or other urgent matter.

IT IS ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS each shall timely
post all significant information concerning the health, education, and welfare of the children,
including but not limited to the children’s medical appointments, the children’s schedules and
activities, and request for reimbursement of uninsured health-care expenses, on the AppClose
website. However, IT IS ORDERED that neither party shall have any obligation to post on that
website any information to which the other party already has access through other means, such as
information available on the website of the children’s schools.

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that MORGAN MYERS and CHARLES MYERS shall

each timely post on the AppClose website a copy of any email received by the party from the

a?

children’s school or any health-care provider of the children, in the event that email was not also
forwarded by the school or health-care provider to the other party.

For purposes of this section of this order, “timely” means on learning of the event or
activity, or if not immediately feasible under the circumstances, not later than twenty-four hours
after learning of the event or activity.

By agreement, the parties may communicate in any manner other than using the
AppClose program, but other methods of communication used by the parties shall be in addition
to, and not in lieu of, using the AppClose program.

Temporary Injunction

The temporary injunction granted below shall be effective immediately and shall be
binding on the parties; on their agents, servants, employees, and attorneys; and on those persons
in active concert or participation with them who receive actual notice of this order by personal
service or otherwise. The requirement of a bond is waived.

IT IS ORDERED that Petitioner and Respondent are enjoined from:

7 Intentionally communicating with the other party in person or in any other
manner, including by telephone or another electronic voice transmission, video chat, in writing,
or electronic messaging, by use of vulgar, profane, obscene, or indecent language or in a coarse
or offensive manner, with intent to annoy or alarm the other party.

2: Threatening the other party in person or in any other manner, including by
telephone or another electronic voice transmission, video chat, in writing, or electronic
messaging, to take unlawful action against any person, intending by this action to annoy or alarm
the other party.

3. Placing a telephone call, anonymously, at any unreasonable hour, in an offensive

and repetitious manner, or without a legitimate purpose of communication with the intent to
annoy or alarm the other party.

4. Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly causing bodily injury to the other party or
to a child of either party.

3; Threatening the other party or a child of either party with imminent bodily injury.

6. Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly destroying, removing, concealing,
encumbering, transferring, or otherwise harming or reducing the value of the property of one or
both of the parties with intent to obstruct the authority of the Court to order a division of the
estate of the parties in a manner that the Court deems just and right, having due regard for the
rights of each party and the children of the marriage.

fp Intentionally falsifying any writing or record, including an electronic record,
relating to the property of either party.

8. Intentionally misrepresenting or refusing to disclose to the other party or to the
Court, on proper request, the existence, amount, or location of any tangible or intellectual
property of one or both of the parties, including electronically stored or recorded information.

9. Intentionally or knowingly damaging or destroying the tangible or intellectual
property of one or both of the parties, including electronically stored or recorded information,
and causing pecuniary loss or substantial inconvenience to the other party.

10. _—_ Intentionally or knowingly tampering with the tangible or intellectual property of
one or both of the parties, including electronically stored or recorded information, and causing
pecuniary loss or substantial inconvenience to the other party.

11. Selling, transferring, assigning, mortgaging, encumbering, or in any other manner

alienating any of the property of one or both of the parties, whether personal property, real

Property, or intellectual property, and whether separate or community property, except as
specifically authorized by this order.

12. _Incurring any debt, other than legal expenses in connection with this suit, except
as specifically authorized by this order.

13. Withdrawing money from any checking or savings account in any financial
institution for any purpose, except as specifically authorized by this order.

14. Spending any money in either party's possession or subject to either party's
control for any purpose, except as specifically authorized by this order.

15. | Withdrawing or borrowing money in any manner for any purpose from any
retirement, profit-sharing, pension, death, or other employee benefit plan, employee savings
plan, individual retirement account, or Keogh account of either party, except as specifically
authorized by this order.

16. | Withdrawing, transferring, assigning, encumbering, selling, or in any other
manner alienating any funds or assets held in any brokerage account, mutual fund account, or
investment account by one or both parties, regardless of whether the funds or assets are
community or separate property and whether the accounts are self-managed or managed by a
third party, except as specifically authorized by this order.

17. Withdrawing or borrowing in any manner all or any part of the cash surrender
value of any life insurance policy on the life of either party or a child of the parties, except as
specifically authorized by this order.

18. Entering any safe-deposit box in the ‘amis of or subject to the control of one or
both of the parties, whether individually or jointly with others.

19. Changing or in any manner altering the beneficiary designation on any life

insurance policy on the life of either party or a child of the parties.
20. Canceling, altering, failing to renew or pay premiums on, or in any manner
affecting the level of coverage that existed at the time this suit was filed of, any life, casualty,

automobile, or health insurance policy insuring the parties’ property or persons including a child

of the parties.
21. Opening or diverting mail or email or any other electronic communication
addressed to the other party.

22. Signing or endorsing the other party's name on any negotiable instrument, check,
or draft, including a tax refund, insurance payment, and dividend, or attempting to negotiate any
negotiable instrument payable to the parties or the other party without the personal signature of
the other party.

23. Taking any action to terminate or limit credit or charge cards in the name of the
parties or the other party, except as specifically authorized in this order.

24.  Discontinuing or reducing the withholding for federal income taxes from either
party's wages or salary.

25. Destroying, disposing of, or altering any financial records of the parties, including
but not limited to a canceled check, deposit slip, and other records from a financial institution, a
record of credit purchases or cash irae, a tax return, and a financial statement.

26. Destroying, disposing of, or altering any email, text message, video message, or
chat message or other electronic data or electronically stored information relevant to the subject
matter of this case, whether stored on a hard drive, in a removable storage device, in cloud
storage, or in another electronic storage medium.

27. Modifying, changing, or altering the native format or metadata of any electronic

data or electronically stored information relevant to the subject matter of this case, whether

stored on a hard drive, in a removable storage device, in cloud storage, or in another electronic
storage medium.

28. Deleting any data or content from any social network profile used or created by
either party or a child of the parties.

29. Using any password or personal identification number to gain access to the other
party's email account, bank account, social media account, or any other electronic account.

30. | Consuming, use or have in their possession any illegal drug or drugs at any time
nor shall they have, at any time, a legal drug or drugs in their possession for which that party
does not have a prescription.

31. Neither party shall consume alcohol at least 12 hours prior to their time for
possession of the children.

32. Neither party shall consume alcohol during their period of possession with the
children.

33. Neither party shall attend one of the children’s activities if they have consumed
alcohol or they are under the influence of alcohol.

34. Neither party shall leave the children with a person who is consuming alcohol at
least 12 hours prior to taking possession of the children or has in their possession an illegal
drug(s), including prescription drugs, as a childcare provider.

35. | No disparaging remarks in the presence of the children and no discussion of
litigation or issues of the case with children.

36. The parties are not to discuss the litigation or issues with the children about the

other party. The aforementioned sentence means that neither party shall belittle, talk bad, refer to

the other party using a profane name or names, profanity or curse words.

37. The parties are not to discuss the litigation or issues with the children.

38. Neither party shall discuss what occurred in Court including testimony of any
witness or witnesses with the children.

IT IS ORDERED that Petitioner is further enjoined from:

A: Entering, operating, or exercising control over the 2021 Mazda motor vehicle and
the 2023 Mazda motor vehicle in the possession of Respondent.

IT IS ORDERED that Respondent is further enjoined from:

1. Excluding Petitioner from the use and enjoyment of the residence located at 6641
Anns Court, Watagua, Texas on or after March 30, 2024:.

2: Entering, operating, or exercising control over the 2007 Mazda motor vehicle in
the possession of Petitioner.

IT IS ORDERED that Petitioner is specifically authorized:

To make expenditures and incur indebtedness for reasonable and necessary living
expenses for food, clothing, shelter, transportation, and medical care.

To make expenditures and incur indebtedness for reasonable attorney's fees and expenses

in connection with this suit.

To make withdrawals from accounts in financial institutions only for the purposes

authorized by this order.
IT IS ORDERED that Respondent is specifically authorized:

To make expenditures and incur indebtedness for reasonable and necessary living

expenses for food, clothing, shelter, transportation, and medical care.

To make expenditures and incur indebtedness for reasonable attorney's fees and expenses

in connection with this suit.

For purposes of this order, "personal property" includes, but is not limited to, the

following:
a.
b.

credit unions;

j.

k.
vehicles;

I.
refunds;

m.

cash, checks, traveler's checks, and money orders;

funds on deposit in financial accounts with commercial banks, savings banks, and

funds and assets held in brokerage, mutual fund, and other investment accounts;
publicly traded stocks, bonds, and other securities;

stock options and restricted stock units;

bonuses;

closely held business interests;

retirement benefits and accounts;

deferred compensation benefits;

insurance policies, annuities, and health savings accounts;

motor vehicles, boats, airplanes, cycles, mobile homes, trailers, and recreational

money owed to one or both parties, including notes and expected income tax

household furniture, furnishings, and fixtures;
electronics and computers;

antiques, artwork, and collections;

sporting goods and firearms;

jewelry and other personal items;

I. pets and livestock;

S. club memberships;
ic travel award benefits and other award accounts;
u. crops, farm equipment, construction equipment, tools, leases, cemetery lots, gold

or silver coins not part of a collection, tax overpayments, loss carry-forward deductions, lottery
tickets/winnings, stadium bonds, stadium seat licenses, seat options, season tickets, ranch brands,
and business names;

Vv. digital assets such as email addresses, social network accounts, Web sites, domain
names, digital media such as pictures, music, e-books, movies, and videos, blogs, reward points,
digital storefronts, artwork, and data storage accounts;

w. virtual assets such as virtual pets, avatars, accessories for virtual characters,

virtual prizes, virtual real estate, and virtual currency;

x. safe-deposit boxes and their contents;
y. storage facilities and their contents; and
Zi contingent assets.

Duration

These Temporary Orders shall continue in force until the signing of the Final Decree of
Divorce or until further order of this Court.

SIGNED on

JUDGE PRESIDING
APPROVED AS TO FORM ONLY:

MARX ALTMAN & JOHNSON

2905 Lackland Rd.
FT. WORTH, Texas 76116
Tel: (817) 926-6211

Fax: (817) 926-6188

By:

Attomey for Petitioner
State Bar No. 24121530
coopercarter@majadmin.com

Daniel R. Bacalis PC

669 Airport Freeway

Suite 307

Hurst, TX 76053

Office Phone: (817)498-4105
Fax: (817)282-0634

By:
Daniel Bacalis
Attorney for Respondent
State Bar No. 01487550
Email: dbacalis@dbacalis.com

APPROVED AND CONSENTED TO AS TO BOTH FORM AND SUBSTANCE:

MORGAN MYE
PETITIONER

CHARLES MYERS
RESPONDENT