1 
 NO. 322 -744263- 23 
IN THE 322ND DISTRICT COURT OF TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS  
 
 
TO THE HONORABLE JUDGE OF THIS COURT:  
 As of today, February 20th, 2025, there exists before the court an unopposed 
Summary Judgement Motion ﬁled on February 26, 2024, a request for discovery and 
admissions alongside a motion to compel which have gone unanswered, an unopposed motion for temporary orders seeking emergen cy relief ﬁled in September of 2024 that 
remains unanswered , a rule 12 motion ﬁled to compel opposing counsel Cooper L. Carter  
served on September 20, 2024, an un -answered motion to dismiss ﬁled on January 13, 
2025, an emergency mot ion for custody, sole use of the marital residence, sanctions, and 
contempt which remains unopposed, and the case is indeﬁnitely stalled due to the opposing counsel’s inability to ﬁle the certiﬁed copy of the notice of remand from the North ern District of Texas.  Morgan Michelle Myers,   
  
  
Petitioner,   
  
v. MOTION TO SIGN  
  
  
Charles Dustin Myers,   
  
Respondent   
  
2025 -02-20

2 
  For the reasons outlined below, and in accordance with Texas laws, the Petitioner 
has no legal avenue to prevail on the merits of this case, and the clerks of the court should 
deliver this motion and the accompanying order for signature immediately upon r eceipt of 
this motion to sign. Respondent’s efforts have been in accordance with Texas laws, his 
intent has been in the best interests of his children, and all efforts to communicate with the 
court have been in an attempt to bring the truth of the matter b efore it.  
 For the forthcoming reasons, the Respondent shows that, without question, the 
attached orders should be signed and served upon all parties:  
I. INTRODUCTION  
Procedural Posture  
1. This case cannot proceed further on a lawful basis due to multiple procedural violations by Petitioner’s counsel, fraud on the court , and the total lack of 
opposition to Respondent’s key motions. Petitioner and her counsel have failed to respond to or contest critical ﬁlings, leaving the case in a legally untenable posture.  
Immediate Relief Sought   
2. Respondent urgently requests that the Court restore his parental rights and 
immediately reinstate his exclusive possession of the marital residence. He further seeks an injunction to restrain Petitioner from any continued interference or 
dissipation of assets, and asks the Court to dismiss this action or, alternatively, to rule on all of Respondent’s pending motions that stand unopposed.  Only such

3 
 immediate relief will halt the ongoing harm caused by the improper orders now in 
place  which claim consent where none was given.  
Counsel Misconduct Invalidate Orders  
3. The standing orders  in this case are tainted by misconduct  and should not be 
allowed to stand. Petitioner’s counsel has failed to comply with mandatory e-ﬁling and e -service rules , has been unable to ﬁle required procedural documents 
(such as the Notice of Remand that currently has this case grid -locked) to move the 
case forward, and obtained prior “agreed” orders through misrepresentation of 
Respondent’s consent . These fundamental defects invalidate the temporary 
orders  presently governing this case. Respondent respectfully moves the Court to 
vacate those order s immediately and grant the relief outlined herein , as supported 
by Texas Law  
II. LEGAL ANALYSIS  
A. MANDATORY E -FILING REQUIREMENTS VIOLATED  
E-File and E -Service Required  
4. Under Texas law, attorneys must utilize the electronic ﬁling system in jurisdictions where e -ﬁling is mandated. Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 21(f)(1) provides that, 
except for limited exceptions, “attorneys must electronically ﬁle documents in 
courts where electronic ﬁling has been mandated.”  Likewise, Rule 21a(a)(1) 
requires that any document electronically ﬁled “must be served electronically

4 
 through the electronic ﬁling manager if the email address of the party or 
attorney to be served is on ﬁle”  which is the case here.  These rules make e -ﬁling 
and e -service mandatory  in Tarrant County District Court proceedings.  
Counsel’s Non -Compliance  
5. Petitioner’s counsel has blatantly violated these requirements. She has failed to properly e-ﬁle pleadings in this case and has not e -served Respondent with ﬁlings 
as required. In fact, when counsel attempted to amend Petitioner’s pleadings on 
January 30, 2024, the document was not ﬁled by counsel herself  at all – it had to 
be ﬁled on her behalf by her self -reported formal employer – Marx, Altman, & 
Johnson.  
6. This indicates that counsel’s Electronic Filing Manager (EFM) account or setup was not in order, and she was not in compliance  with the e -ﬁling mandate  .  
B. OPPOSING COUNSEL CANNOT LEGALLY FILE OR PROSECUTE CASE 
Counsel’s Filing Disability  
7. Petitioner’s counsel has demonstrated that she is procedurally incapable of 
prosecuting this case. As noted, her EFM account is apparently still tied to her prior 
law ﬁrm,  registered under the email of COOPERCARTER@CANTEYHANGAR.COM , 
as evidenced by Exhibit 1 below,  preventing her from independently e -ﬁling 
documents on this Court’s docket. The record reﬂects that counsel’s Amended 
Petition had to be ﬁled by a third -party attorney from her former ﬁrm, rather than by 
counsel of record herself . (See the Amended Petition for Divorce filed 01/30/2024,

5 
 the Motion for Pre- Trial Conference filed in June of 2024, and take note that there 
was never a reduced ‘agreed’ temporary orders served prior to their rendition.  
8. This irregularity suggests that counsel lacks the ability to ﬁle pleadings in her own 
name in the e -ﬁling system. An attorney who cannot even ﬁle pleadings properly 
cannot litigate a case in compliance with Texas procedure.  
No Notice of Remand – Case Stalled  
9. The case’s posture further illustrates counsel’s inability to move the matter forward. 
Respondent removed this case to federal court on December 12, 2024; the federal 
court remanded it back to state court on December 17, 2024. Upon remand, Texas law, speciﬁcally rule 237a of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure, which states that 
the “plaintiff shall  ﬁle a certiﬁed copy of the order of remand with the clerk of the 
state court and shall forthwith give written notice of such ﬁling to the attorneys of record  for all adverse parties .”  
10.  To date, no Notice of Remand has been ﬁled  by Petitioner or her counsel, meaning 
this case has never been officially re -docketed post -remand. In Respondent’s 
words, “the case is now procedurally check -mated because the opposing party 
can’t ﬁle the mandatory notice of remand with the clerk ” – which was his exact 
strategic intent in removing the case.  
11. In other words, due to opposing counsel’s ﬁling incapacity, the case cannot progress on the state court’s docket. This procedural limbo has prejudiced Respondent and left the case in a state of suspension for over two months.

6 Incapable of F urther R epresentation 
12. G
iven these circumstances, Respondent submits that Petitioner’s counsel is
procedurally disqualiﬁed from further representation in this matter. She has not
properly appeared or ﬁled anything since the remand, and her earlier attempts were
non -compliant. Texas courts cannot countenance a case languishing because an
attorney is unable to perform the basic act of ﬁling pleadings. Respondent requests
an order recognizing that Petitioner’s counsel, by virtue of her inability to ﬁle and
serve documents as req uired, cannot continue to represent Petitioner  in this
action. At this juncture, the only appropriate remedies are to dismiss the caseoutright  or to immediately proceed to rule on Respondent’s unopposed dispositive
motions (which would effectively resolve the contested matters of the case ). In
either event, the Court’s intervention is needed to break the procedural logjamcaused by counsel’s inaction  mixed with the Petitioner, MORGAN MICHELLE
MYERS, deceptive actions.
C. UNOPPOSED MOTIONS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE RULING
Failure to Oppose = Consent to Grant  
13. Under Texas law, when a party fails to respond to a motion, the court may considerthe motion unopposed and grant it as a matter of course. This principle is especially
true for dispositive motions and those involving discovery sanctions. Petitioner andher counsel have wholly failed to respond or object  to multiple motions that
Respondent ﬁled, thereby conceding the merits of those motions. The Court should

7 
 immediately grant each of the following motions , all of which have been on ﬁle 
for months without any response from Petitioner . 
No-Evidence Motion for Summary Judgment (ﬁled Feb. 26, 2024)  
14. Respondent moved for summary judgment on the ground that Petitioner produced 
no evidence to support her claims (and notably, Petitioner also never answered Respondent’s earlier emergency motion). Petitioner ﬁled no response or summary 
judgment evidence whatsoever. Pursuant to  Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 166a :  
 
“[t]he judgment sought shall be rendered forthwith if (i) the deposition transcripts, 
interrogatory answers, and other discovery responses referenced or set forth in the 
motion or response, and (ii) the pleadings, admissions, affidavits, stipulations of the 
parties, and authenticated or certiﬁed public records, if any, on ﬁle at the time of the hearing, or ﬁled thereafter and before judgment with permission of the court, show that, except as to the amount of damages, there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on the issues expressly set out in the motion or in an answer or any other response. ” 
 
15. Because Petitioner (the non -movant) failed to produce any evidence or response, 
Respondent’s summary judgment motion must be granted as a matter of law. There 
are no fact issues preventing judgment in Respondent’s favor on the pending claims , 
and the only genuine issue that remains is the amount of damages. This ﬁts squarely 
with Texas Law and entitles Respondent a judgement in his favor.  
Rule 12 Motion to Show Authority (ﬁled Sept. 20, 2024)  
16. Respondent ﬁled a sworn Rule 12 motion challenging the authority of Petitioner’s 
attorney, as by that point counsel had not ﬁled a single substantive pleading on the record. Petitioner’s counsel never responded to the Rule 12 motion and never

8 
 appeared to prove her authority to act. Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 12 places the 
burden on the challenged attorney to “show sufficient authority to prosecute or defend the suit on behalf of”  her client, and if the attorney fails, “the court shall 
refuse to permit the attorney to appear in the cause, and shall strike the pleadings if 
no person who is authorized to prosecute or defend appears.”  
17. Here, counsel has not met her burden or even attempted to show authority. The 
Rule 12 motion is unopposed and should be granted by default . 
Request for Admissions and Production of Documents (ﬁled Sept. 17, 2024)  
18. Respondent moved to  provide written admissions and production of certain 
documents, and later a motion  compel Petitioner’s responses to discovery after 
Petitioner failed to answer written discovery requests. Petitioner has never served any discovery responses  to Respondent’s admissions , requests for production, or 
other requests, nor did she respond to the motion to compel. By failing to answer discovery or oppose the motion, Petitioner has waived all objections and left Respondent with no recourse except c ourt intervention. The motion to compel is 
unopposed and should be granted immediately , ordering Petitioner to fully 
respond to all outstanding discovery requests. Moreover, because Petitioner’s failure to respond is without justiﬁcation, the Court should impose sanctions for discovery abuse  under Tex. R. Civ. P. 215.2(b). The range of sanctions available 
includes matters being deemed established, exclusion of evidence, or even striking Petitioner’s pleadings or dismissal of her claims .

9 
 19.  Under Tex. R. Civ. P. 198.2(c), if a party fails to timely answer or object to requests 
for admissions, the requests are automatically deemed admitted “without a court 
order.”  Because Petitioner’s responses were due in October 2024 and none were 
served, each request is deemed admitted by operation of law . These deemed 
admissions conclusively establish the truth of the matters asked, including (upon information and belief) admissions that support Respondent’s position (such as admissions that Petitioner ag reed to certain facts, that no family violence occurred 
as alleged,  that $1,576 was taken from the joint marital account, etc. ). Petitioner’s 
failure to answer means she cannot dispute those facts . The Court should deem 
the admissions conclusively established and take them as true for all purposes in 
this case.  
Grant All Unopposed Relief  
20. In light of  Petitioner’s total failure to oppose the motions above, Respondent is 
entitled to rulings granting all the relief sought in each motion. Texas law favors granting unopposed motions, and there is no reason to delay. Each of these motions has been on ﬁle w ell beyond the response period (some for nearly a year) with no 
answer or request for extension by Petitioner. By granting these motions, the Court 
will effectively resolve the core issues of the case: the summary judgment and deemed admissions establish R espondent’s right to judgment; the Rule 12 motion 
removes an unauthorized attorney; and the motion to compel will either be mooted by case dismissal or ensure that Respondent belatedly gets discovery if the case somehow proceeds. Respondent urges the Court to immediately rule on and grant

10 
 all pending unopposed motions at once, rather than allow further prejudice from 
continued delay.  
D. FRAUDULENT ORDERS AND LACK OF CONSENT  
Orders Procured by Fraud/Misrepresentation  
21. Respondent further moves to vacate and hold for naught the Temporary Orders 
currently in place (signed on March 14, 2024), on the basis that those orders were procured by fraud, misrepresentation, and without Respondent’s actual consent. Texas law is clear  that any court order obtained through fraud upon the court or 
based on false representations is invalid and unenforceable. In this case, the 
Temporary Orders were presented to the Associate Judge as an “Agreed” Order, when in fact Respondent never agreed to their terms. The record reﬂects that the 
Temporary Orders were drafted by Petitioner’s counsel and contained a recital that Respondent agreed – but Respondent objected and refused to sign them. At the 
March 14, 2024 hearing, Judge Kaitcer ordered Respo ndent to sign the proposed 
temporary orders “that claimed he agreed to them” , which Respondent ﬂatly 
refused to do . Despite Respondent’s lack of consent, the court proceeded to sign 
the order, effectively adopting counsel’s false representation of an agr eement that 
did not exist , and where the terms differed from the earlier signed agreement which 
was clearly contested by Respondent.  
Violation of Rule 11 – No Enforceable Agreement

11 22. The imposition of these so -called agreed orders violates Texas Rule of Civil
Procedure 11. Rule 11 mandates that “no agreement between attorneys or
parties touching any suit pending will be enforced unless it be in writing, signedand ﬁled with the papers as part of the record, or unless it be made in open
court and entered of record.”
23. Here, there was no written agreement ﬁled that was signed by Respondent, nor
any agreement stated on the record in open court with Respondent’s consent.  In
other words,  the only “agreement” was an outline read into the Associate Judge’s
Report on February 1, 2024, which Respondent’s prior attorney pressured him to
sign under duress (and which Respondent repudiated by ﬁring that attorney dayslater). Even that report set speciﬁc conditions (e.g. a written order to be drafted by
Respondent’s prior counsel,  and within a certain timeframe, which were never
fulﬁlled. Thus, by the time Petitioner’s counsel drafted the Temporary Orders in
March 2024, there was no valid agreement in effect – and certainly not one that met
Rule 11’s requirements. The assertion that the orders were “agreed” is false.Enforcing an order th at recites a nonexistent agreement directly contravenes Rule
11 and fundamental contract principles . The missing signature from the orders from
both the Respondent and his prior counsel drives home  this point.
Void and Must B e Set A side 
24. B
ecause Respondent never truly agreed to the current Temporary Orders, those
orders were procured by misrepresentation  and should be considered void or
voidable. Respondent did not consent to the drastic terms that removed him from

12 
 his home and children, and any suggestion otherwise is a fraud upon the Court. 
Texas courts have long held that judgments and orders obtained by fraud have no force and should be set aside to prevent manifest injustice. Respondent respectfully asks this Co urt to vacate the Temporary Orders entered on March 14, 2024 , and 
any related orders, due to the lack of a valid Rule 11 agreement and the fraud inherent in presenting them as agreed. The Court should not reward or enforce Petitioner’s counsel’s deceptive tactics. Instead, the Court should restore the status 
quo that existed before those fraudulent orders — speciﬁcally, Respondent should 
be immediately reinstated as a primary managing conservator with full rights and returned to his residence (as addressed in the Prayer below).  
 E. SEVERE FINANCIAL DAMAGES REQUIRE EMERGENCY RELIEF  
I
rreparable Financial Harm 
25. Respondent has suffered extreme ﬁnancial losses  as a direct result of being 
wrongfully excluded from his home, business, and children for over a year under the current orders. The damages exceed $100,000 and continue to climb. Respondent’s 
ability to earn a living and manage his business interests has been severely impaired because he was removed from the marital residence (which also served as the base of his business operations). He has lost substantial  income and business 
opportunities that cannot be re covered  after the fact. Petitioner’s ongoing control 
of the residence and marital assets further threatens irreparable injury — for 
example, Petitioner has had unfettered access to Respondent’s personal property,

13 
 ﬁnancial instruments, and business equipment, and she has shown a willingness to 
dissipate or misuse those assets. Every day that passes is causing Respondent irreparable ﬁnancial harm that money damages cannot adequately redress later.  
Legal Basis for Injunctive Relief   
26. Texas law expressly recognizes that injunctive relief is appropriate to prevent irreparable harm to property or ﬁnancial interests. Section 65.011 of the Texas Civil 
Practice and Remedies Code provides general grounds for injunctions. Notably, 
§65.011(5)  permits a writ of injunction when “irreparable injury to real or personal 
property is threatened irrespective of any remedy at law.”  Here, that standard is met. 
Respondent’s exclusion from the marital residence and business has placed real 
and personal pr operty at risk: the marital home (real property) is in jeopardy of 
waste or  loss, and Respondent’s personal property (including business assets, 
conﬁdential records, and equipment located at the residence) is being controlled or and disposed of by Petitioner. This presents a threat of irreparable injury  because 
once property is sold, lost, or the business is destroyed, Respondent cannot be made whole by monetary compensation alone.  
Need for Immediate Injunction  
27. Given these circumstances, the Court should issue immediate injunctive relief to protect Respondent’s property and ﬁnancial interests. Respondent requests a Temporary Restraining Order and temporary injunction prohibiting Petitioner 
from: (a) selling, transferring, encumbering, or destroying any property belonging to

14 
 Respondent (including business assets, vehicles, bank accounts, and the marital 
residence); (b) interfering with Respondent’s business operations or contacts; and (c) taking any action that would further deplete the marital estate or Respondent’s separate estate. Respondent also seeks an order immediately restoring him to the 
marital residence so that he can secure his property and resume his business activities. The ongoing harm is urgent  and cannot wait for a ﬁnal trial setting. By 
statute and equity, Re spondent is entitled to injunctive relief to prevent any further 
irreparable damage to his property rights and ﬁnancial stability . 
The Court’s prompt intervention will preserve the status quo and ensure that Respondent’s livelihood is not destroyed before this case can be resolved on the merits.  
III. PRAYER FOR RELIEF  
WHEREFORE, PREMISES CONSIDERED, Respondent Charles Dustin Myers prays that this 
Court grant the following relief immediately:  
1. Restoration of Parental Rights and Residence:  Issue an order reinstating 
Respondent’s parental rights and possession  effective immediately, including,  
naming Respondent as the primary conservator of the two minor children in this matter,  and grant Respondent exclusive use and possession of the marital 
residence  at 6641 Anne Court, Watauga, Texas, forthwith  while the case is pending.  
2. Vacate Fraudulently Obtained Orders:  Vacate and set aside the Temporary 
Orders signed on or about March 14, 2024 (and any other orders based on the purported “agreement” of February 1, 2024), on the grounds of lack of consent and

15 
 fraud. Those orders should be declared null, void, and of no effect, and the Court 
should enter new temporary orders as needed to reﬂect Respondent’s restored rights  so that child support may be established for the sake of the children to be 
paid by the Petitioner.  
3. Dismissal / Judgment on Unopposed Motions:  Dismiss this case in its entirety , 
with prejudice, due to Petitioner’s failure to prosecute and the procedural incapacity 
of her counsel – or alternatively, enter immediate judgment  in favor of Respondent 
on all pending claims by: (a) granting Respondent’s No -Evidence Motion for 
Summary Judgment, and (b) dismissing or striking Petitioner’s pleadings pursuant to 
Rule 12 and/or as a discovery sanction. In either event, the outcome shou ld be that 
Petitioner’s claims a re terminated and Respondent is granted appropriate relief on 
his counterclaims (if any were ﬁled) as unopposed.  
4. Temporary Restraining Order and Injunction:  Issue a Temporary Restraining 
Order (TRO) immediately (to be effective forthwith, without further notice) 
restraining Petitioner from interfering with Respondent’s property, business, or parental rights. Speciﬁcally, Petitioner should be enjoined from: removing the 
children from Tarrant County o r from Respondent’s possession once returned to 
him; disposing of, encumbering, or damaging any property owned wholly or in part 
by Respondent; withdrawing or spending funds from any accounts containing Respondent’s assets; and harassing or coming within a certain distance of Respondent. Set this matter for a Temporary Injunction hearing within 14 days as

16 
 required, and upon hearing, issue a temporary injunction maintaining these 
restraints for the pendency of this case.  
5. General Relief:  Grant such other and further relief, at law or in equity, to which 
Respondent is justly entitled. This includes but is not limited to court costs, 
reasonable attorney’s fees as sanctions or as may be allowed by law, and any other orders necessary to undo the harm caused to Respondent and his children by the 
improper orders and to protect the best interests of the children  going forward.  
Respondent respectfully requests that the Court act on an emergency basis  given the 
ongoing irreparable harm described above. Time is of the essence to correct the course of 
this case and to prevent any further injustice.  
Though the original Judge presiding over this matter has been divested of jurisdiction, 
Texas Law permits intervention in circumstances such as these by said Judge, and likewise 
for the Regional Presiding Judge, David L. Evans, “ may issue interim or ancillary orders in 
the pending case as justice may require. ” 
In the instant case, justice does require such immediate action.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Charles Dustin Myers  
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS  
PRO -SE 
6641 Anne Court  
Watauga, Texas 76148  
Email: ChuckDustin12@gmail.com  
Phone: 817 -546-3693

17 
  
 
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE  
Respondent, Charles Dustin Myers, hereby certiﬁ es that a true and correct copy of the 
foregoing motion was served on Petitioner’s counsel of record, Cooper L. Carter , via the 
via email to clcarter@example.com (email address on ﬁle) on this 20th day of February, 
2025, in accordance with the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure  and to Petitioner, MORGAN 
MICHELLE MYERS, through the Electronic Filing Manger in accordance with Texas Rules of 
Civil Procedure 21a.  
 /s/ Charles Dustin Myers  
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS  
PRO -SE 
6641 Anne Court  
Watauga, Texas 76148  
Email: ChuckDustin12@gmail.com  
Phone: 817 -546-3693 
Pro Se Respondent

EXHIBIT 1
COOPER L. CARTER'S 
EFM IMPROPERLY 
REGISTERED