322-744263-23

From: Charlie Vids chuckdustin12@gmail.com
Subject: Re: Girls
Date: October 7, 2024 at 7:36 AM
To: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com

I'm bringing them by. They don't want to go.
I'm getting them dressed and brushing their hair.
| have to be out of here by 11am so we're all affected.

The girls clearly are having issues and you're gonna have to actually talk to them. This situation is starting to affect them. This is why
you should've taken that parenting class.. it explains all of this.

I've tried.

I'll be by with them to drop them off as soon as | can.. likely 7:55. They will be dressed for school

On Sun, Oct 6, 2024, 10:56PM Morgan Myers <morganmw02@ gmail.com> wrote:
Anything involving court proceedings need to be sent to my attorney. I’ve mentioned this before. She will notify me of any hearings
scheduled or anything required of me.
Regarding the girls. Are you intending on bringing them to the house tomorrow morning? If so, for what purpose? You are meant to
take them to school the Monday morning following your weekend of possession. I've packed enough clothes for them to have clean
clothes for school. I’ve heard your concerns about how they feel about school, and plan to talk to them about it myself.
As far as what they're telling you about things I've said, they are not a reliable source for that information. I've never said I’m scared
of you, because I'm not. I've never said anything about vacations not being good, because | have zero intentions of tainting their
experience.
Please let me know exactly what the plan is for tomorrow morning so | can be prepared to have them home early if needed.

On Sun, Oct 6, 2024 at 10:19PM Charlie Vids <chuckdustin! 2@ gmail.com> wrote:
Right before bed, the girls started crying saying they didn't want to go to school.

Mara stated she thinks the divorce is her fault because you always yell at her for not listening.
| told her that's not the case and that she should never think that.

Caroline didn't really say too much and was just being upset in tune with Mara.

They informed me that you're scared of me, and have told them this.

This is almost as disgusting as telling them their first family vacation wasn't good.

Mara also said she has a really mean teacher which is the first im hearing of this.

They both will likely resist going to school tomorrow, so I'm going to have to drop them off at the house around 7:45 considering |
can't afford to stay close by until the case is resolved and have a limited time to be out.

Luckily, the recusal motion I'm filing tomorrow must be answered within three business days, and the court can either recuse
themselves or refer the case to David Evans, who will send notice of hearing to all parties and conduct a hearing.

I'm attaching four subpoenas to the motion, which will require Dan, Meme, Damen, and Debbie to attend the call, and given this,
have requested that it be conducted via telephone as permitted by statute.

I've requested interim orders during the pendency, and no further action can be taken on the case until this motion is ruled on.

If ruled in my favor, the case will be transferred to another court or assigned to a different judge and cannot be reviewed by
mandamus.

If it isn't, the decision is final and isn't appealable and can only be reviewed by writ of mandamus, which i will pursue if denied.

From: Charlie Vids chuckdustint2@gmail.com @
Subject: Some discovery.
Date: October 5, 2024 at 10:15 PM
To: Morgan Wilson morganmw02@gmail.com

What's the end goal here?

Work at the tearoom for 3 hours a day?

How are you going to explain away wasting 8 months?

You realize your attorney has over 8 motions to respond to, correct?

Is it the witchcraft?

Just trying to understand how any of this is what's best for our children.

If you did this and turned around and started making 100k, I'd have no issue..

But you didn't. You did this and actually expected to live out a fantasy while reducing your employment, taking every weekend off most
likely, and then you expect to maintain the same quality of life you had before?

How?

Remember what | said in the beginning when | said you're going to end up hurting more than just me?
Well, take a look around.

It makes absolutely zero sense.

What are you so scared of?

Accountability?

I'd much rather discuss this like adults than continue on the current path.

BUT for whatever reason, you can't do it.

Also, last thing -

Wheres your attorney? Scheming to try and figure out how she will prove her authority?

Even if she does, how do you explain away not responding to anything in the case, and not providing any arguments against my
position?

How do you explain a fraudulent OAG intervention?

How do you explain calling you to testify about the need for protection while simultaneously saying we agreed to non-suit the
protective order?

You think the Texas OAG would try to intervene in a case, then just dissappear after a pro se litigant objects?
You think they'd sign Holly Hayes name on a signature line that doesn't even match the signer?

When she inevitably gets disqualified, who in their right mind would take this case?

what valid reason is there for you to have custody of the kids and sole use of the residency?

Because it's memes house?

She took care of you your whole life as a child, and now you expect the same care as an adult?

These are real questions. Stop running away. Work with me so we can get divorced and move on with our lives.

Credit History

Score Change History

94 /

Below Average

Oct 5, 2024
850
630 @ ee. oa
520 —

300
190

ZS 2 SF KF SA SKY L LB
FSM Ce em ww &

2024

fi @)

Home Improve Activity

Active members

53

}b

are
SEE

(@ BB

Alerts For You

See More >

See More >

Cancelled

332

Estimated revenue

48% less than previous 365 days

Memberships

See More >

$15,220.33

From: Charlie Vids (via Google Photos) noreply-14e7d75b80ba16b13c818d6b87575e0e @ google.com
Subject: Charlie Vids shared “4 years ago” with you
Date: October 2, 2024 at 12:19 PM
To: morganmw02@gmail.com

@& Google Photos

Charlie Vids: | keep getting these every day.. it's so hard
but it gets me through each day.

4 years ago

You received this mail because Charlie Vids shared these photos with you. If you no

longer wish to receive email notifications of shared photos, unsubscribe here

Get the Google Photos app

GET ITON

»> Google Play

4% Download on the

. App Store

From:
Subject:
Date:
To:

Charlie Vids chuckdustini2@gmail.com ¢
Re: AppClose

October 4, 2024 at 10:52 PM

Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com

On Thu, Oct 3, 2024, 9:12PM Charlie Vids < > wrote:

Please don't pretend like you want to communicate with me about the girls.
You only want to communicate if it serves your narrative. Important issues are consistently avoided.

I'l connect back with you if your attorney proves her authority and the judges can provide an explanation to Regional Judge David
Evans about how they have handled this case at the recusal hearing, and it is determined that the current orders are in fact valid
and enforceable.

Until then, you can contact me like a normal person regarding the girls.
| will no longer be participating in your narrative.

There's no valid reason to communicate via app close. You'll say "it's ordered" yet you selectively follow the orders that give you
some sense of control and disregard anything directly related to the well being of the girls.

I'm done playing this game.
There's a clear path forward, and it doesn't involve you at this time.

I'll talk to you about the girls on the stand when there's an impartial judge presiding who doesn't cut me off when I'm trying to lay
foundation.

Again, I've given you every chance to do the right thing, but you've continued to double down.
The judges are in the same boat.
Now I'm in a position where I've been left with no choice but to leverage the law to correct this egregious situation.

I'd suggest reading the tortoise and the hare. Great book.

20241004_200
035.heic

From: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com
Subject: Re: Reminder
Date: March 8, 2024 at 5:23 PM
To: Charlie Vids chuckdustin12@gmail.com

Mara and Caroline are asking where you are and why you aren't here yet. Do | need to tell them you aren't coming?

On Fri, Mar 8, 2024 at 11:26AM Charlie Vids <chuckdustin| 2@ gmail.com> wrote:
No problem.

| will come by around 3 to get them.
Thanks for working with me here.

My credit should update soon and should be getting relatively close to applying for a home loan and acquiring residency in the
immediate area allowing frequent access to both of us.

If you don't want to see me | will hang back until | get confirmation of the house being unlocked and then will come and get the girls.
Charlie

On Fri, Mar 8, 2024, 11:23 AM Morgan Myers <morganmw02@gimail com> wrote:
That would be easier, and probably better for the girls. I'll have them pick the girls up. Thanks.

On Fri, Mar 8, 2024 at 10:57 AM Charlie Vids <chuckdustin!2@ gmail.com> wrote:
Thank You

If it would be easier, Meme and Papaw are welcome to pick them up that way they have somewhere to go until 3.
If not I'll try to figure out something for us to do until then.

On Fri, Mar 8, 2024, 10:54 AM Morgan Myers <morganmw02@g
ll make sure the cards are out on the porch.

nail.com> wrote:

On Fri, Mar 8, 2024 at 10:52AM Charlie Vids <chuckdustin|2:;@gmail.com> wrote:
Morgan,

Thanks for letting me know.

| will need someone to set outside the girls' cards so | can pick them up.

If nobody is available to do that, let me know and |'ll leave early to get new cards at the school.
| will take the girls to the park until you're able to return to unlock the house.

Charlie

On Fri, Mar 8, 2024, 10:46 AM Morgan Myers <morcanmw02@ gmail.com> wrote:
| was just about to email you, since you're once again not checking App Close.

Just want to make you aware of a couple things.

There is an early dismissal at the school today. Since your time with them begins at dismissal, you will need to pick
them up at 12:40. If you aren't able to do that, | need to know asap so | can have Papaw or Caitlin pick them up.

| have a couple of meetings this afternoon. | will be out of the house, and the locks were changed. You will not be able to
get in. If you pick up the girls from school, you will need to make other arrangements until | am available and can get
back to the house. | should be able to return around 3pm today.

On Fri, Mar 8, 2024 at 10:41 AM Charlie Vids <chuckdusiin! 2 @gmail com> wrote:
Morgan,

| will be returning with the children to our home after school today.
The current agreed orders have not been officially rendered and are still in the system as a draft.
Again, if you want the orders to become binding you will need to have your attorney file the appropriate paperwork.

Or if you feel they're enforceable, then you must file the appropriate enforcement motion.

If vant dant tinderctand the ctinitlatinne af the anrasad accnriate inidnec rannrt | hinhh: racammand cantactina vatir

BE CI I gr CUCU UI JEU POPU, Fey HOCUN er CUP pour
pers

attorney or the court coordinator.

The police and the Justice of the Peace court have reiterated that you cannot force me to leave, and | cannot force
you to leave.

Your decision to leave or stay is up to you, but you cannot keep me and the kids out of the house without going
through the proper legal channels required to do so.

Charlie

From: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com
Subject: Fwd: Notice
Date: March 9, 2024 at 10:58 AM
To: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com

---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Charlie Vids <chuckdustini2:@gmaii.com>
Date: Sat, Mar 9, 2024 at 10:53AM

Subject: Notice

To: Morgan Wilson <morg

Morgan,

I've communicated with you several times informing you I'd be returning to the home to spend spring break with the kids.

You've unlawfully changed the locks twice now under what you believe to be TEMPORARY orders.

I've notified the court informing them | wouldn't be leaving due to several factors.

Furthermore, you have an attorney yet are continuously choosing to not abide by the legal process , but instead choose to
continuously damage our children, my business, and have threatened me, harassed me, and have used your family to harass me as

well.

What's ironic in this - is that this whole case has been about lying so you could cheat your way to custody and sole possession of the
house.

Your attorney didn't even want to take the case, and all she's done is try to cover up your mistakes which will be pointed out at the
hearing.

I'm done playing games with you and your family.
You need to tell the girls the truth: that you're not allowing me back into the house because you feel entitled not to follow the law.

Whether you think there are orders or not is irrelevant. The police said you cannot keep me out. If you want to keep me out, you have
to go through the legal channels and try to enforce the orders.

| will either be back today by your own free will, or will be back Monday after the EX PARTE hearing for a protective order.
Difference between mine and yours is that | have evidence, yours was fictitious and baseless.

The choice is yours.

From: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com
Subject: Fwd: Kids Spring Break & Witness List
Date: March 6, 2024 at 4:07 PM

To:

Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com

Is he able to come back? | have no idea what to do.
seneseeeee Forwarded message croceesee

From: Charlie Vids <chuckcust 5 com>
Date: Wed, Mar 6, 2024 at 2:02 PM

Subject: Re: Kids isis Break & Milnes cs
To: Morgan Myers <morganm s n>

| will be returning to the house tomorrow after | pick the girls up from school.

The police said you cannot keep me out of the house, as | chose to leave today to prevent any unnecessary conflict.

If you want me out of the house, you'll need to go through the courts.

Thanks,

Charlie

On Wed, Mar 6, 2024 at 12:43 PM Morgan Myers <n ny 7 n> wrote:
With anything related to court, please email my anes, You have her ve | am aware of the possession schedule for spring
break. Thank you.

On Wed, Mar 6, 2024 at 12:07 PM Charlie Vids <chuckdustin! 2'@gimail com> wrote:
Morgan,
Spring Break: During the school year, spring break or spring
vacation rotates yearly between the possessory and non-
possessory parent. The non-possessory parent has spring break
every even-numbered year and the possessory parent has spring
break every odd-numbered year. These periods of possession
begin and end at 6:00 p.m. each year.

| will be picking the kids up at 6:00 p.m. on Friday.
You effectively just deprived the kids of their own home for Spring Break, something | was trying to prevent from happening.

As far as the upcoming hearing, I'll be preparing necessary pre-trial paperwork and will give you the list of witnesses that will
need to be present at the hearing.

Have a good day,

Charlie

From: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com
Subject: Fwd: For All That We've Done, and Where We're Headed
Date: February 23, 2024 at 1:33 PM
To: Cooper Carter coopercarter@ majadmin.com

Good afternoon.

| am just realizing that | didn’t forward this to you after | got it. It is an email from Charles. | received it within 10 minutes of the email
from your office about the upcoming court date. Not sure if you need it, but figured it could be helpful to make you aware of it.

| also wanted to check in and make sure you were receiving his multiple attempts at his latest filing from Wednesday and yesterday.
Please let me know if there’s anything you need from me. Thank you!
Morgan

seeeseneee Forwarded message ---------

From: Charlie Vids <chuckcustini2@amail com>

Date: Fri, Feb 16, 2024 at 2:55PM

Subject: For All That We've Done, and Where We're Headed
To: Morgan Wilson <morganmwo2@gmail com>

Morgan,

As | sit down to write this letter, | find myself at a crucial juncture, not just in our lives but in the essence of what defines us, our family,
and the future of our daughters. This isn't merely a letter; it's a reflection, a moment of introspection, and a heartfelt plea rooted in the
love and dreams we've shared. It's about the path we've walked together and the crossroad where we now stand, facing directions |
never thought we'd consider.

The recent events have cast a shadow over us, making it difficult to see beyond the immediate turmoil. Yet, despite the challenges
and the heartache, there's a part of me that clings to a sliver of hope. This hope isn't born out of naivety but from a deep-seated belief
in the strength and bond we've built over the years. It's a hope that, perhaps, there's a chance for us to pause, to reflect, and to
contemplate the gravity of the path we're on—a path that seems to be tearing at the very fabric of our family, leading us away from
each other and the essence of what once made us 'us.'

As | navigate through these sleepless nights, our memories—those moments of joy, laughter, and even the challenges we faced
together—are a testament to what we've built. They remind me of a bond that was once unbreakable, capable of withstanding any
storm. It's heartbreaking to see how far we've drifted from those days, embroiled in a battle | never imagined we'd fight, a battle that
seems to disregard the very heart of our family: our children.

Morgan, this isn't a letter of blame but a call—a call to the woman | fell in love with, the mother of our children, and the person with
whom I've shared the deepest and most meaningful moments of my life. It's a call to reflect on the implications of our current situation,
on the pain and confusion our daughters are experiencing. They're hurting, Morgan, and it's a pain that echoes through our home, a
home that once thrived on love, laughter, and unity.

All the work, the memories, the dreams we've shared—they're not just remnants of the past; they're the foundation of what we can still
have. They're embedded deep within our souls, a reminder of what we're fighting for. I'm not ready to let go of that—not without a fight.
But this fight isn't about winning or losing; it's about fighting for what's best for our children, for the chance to provide them with the
stability, love, and care they desperately need.

I'm reaching out to you, Morgan, not as an opponent but as a partner, a father, and a man who still believes in us. I'm asking you to
consider the path before us, to think about the impact of our actions on our daughters, and to remember the love that brought us
together. Let's not allow the challenges we face to define our future or the legacy we leave for our children.

This is a call to come home, not just to the physical space we shared but to the essence of what made our house a home. It's a plea
for dialogue, for understanding, and for the chance to navigate this crossroad together, with the best interests of our daughters at
heart.

The divorce, as outlined in our proceedings, brings to light the complexity and the gravity of our situation, emphasizing the need for us
to approach this with the utmost care for our children's welfare. It's clear from the protective orders, the division of property, and the
temporary injunctions sought, that we're navigating through uncharted waters, with significant implications for our family's future.

This doesn't mean you lose, or | win. But rather, it means both of us win because we're putting aside the noise and doing what we've
always done well together: take care of our kids. We can get divorced and still be friends. We can get divorced and still do what's right
by our daughters.

| can forgive, and | can understand. Because throughout this nightmare, one thing has remained persistent: our love for our children
and our desire to see them thrive. Let's choose the path to forgiveness, the path that leads us to a better future for our daughters,
regardless of the challenges we face as individuals.

If the divorce is truly what you want, then let me give it to you, but in a way that won't sacrifice everything we've worked for. In a way
that doesn't shroud our marriage in darkness when there are endless beacons of light. In a way that allows me to continue being a
part of our girls lives throughout the process. In a way that doesn't cost us thousands of dollars to hire people who have no concern for
our daughters.

As you know, I've lived through this. It lasted a decade because both of my parents weren't thinking about what mattered - me and my
brothers.

| can't re-live this nightmare, and | know this is not what you want either.
| can accept the fact you no longer wish to be married to me - and | understand why.

If the divorce is truly what you desire, | am committed to facilitating it in a manner that honors the depth of our shared life and the well-
being of our daughters. Unlike the contentious paths often taken, | believe there's a way to navigate this transition that respects the
love we've shared and the future of our family.

Our divorce proceedings have laid bare the complex emotions and legal entanglements we're facing. From the division of our
community property to the considerations around our daughters’ lives, every aspect underscores the gravity of our decisions now. Yet,
in this complexity, | see an opportunity for us to choose a path less traveled—a path of mutual respect, understanding, and shared
commitment to our children's future.

This journey need not be one of loss or bitterness. Instead, it can be a testament to our ability to rise above the hurt, to navigate our
differences with grace, and to prioritize the emotional and psychological well-being of our daughters above all else. Our shared history,
the dreams we've nurtured together, and the challenges we've overcome are not erased by this divorce; they are, in fact, the very
reasons we must strive to handle this transition with care and dignity.

The legal measures outlined—from temporary orders to permanent injunctions—serve as a stark reminder of the legal framework
within which we must operate. Yet, they do not dictate the spirit of our interactions. We have the power to define this process, to
choose dialogue over discord, and to ensure that our daughters witness an example of maturity and compassion, even in the face of
personal turmoil.

Choosing the path to forgiveness and understanding does not signify a loss for either of us; rather, it offers a chance for healing and
growth. It allows us to close this chapter of our lives with respect for what was and optimism for what will be. It ensures that the legacy
we leave for our daughters is one of love, resilience, and the courage to choose peace over conflict.

As we move forward, let us do so with the intention of minimizing harm and maximizing understanding. Let's remain allies in parenting,
united in our desire to see our daughters thrive. This is not just about dividing assets or legal rights; it's about safeguarding the
emotional and psychological health of our children and preserving the essence of a family transformed but still intact.

Morgan, | extend this letter not just as a legal respondent but as a partner in parenting and a fellow steward of our family's future. Let
us navigate this process with the wisdom, love, and respect that our daughters deserve, laying a foundation for a future where they
feel secure, loved, and valued, regardless of the challenges we face.

So with that, | formally apologize for my role in all of this. I'm truly sorry | wasn't able to handle the thought of losing you as quickly as
you would have liked. I'm sorry for any actions that were made out of spite or anger. I'm sorry for failing you as a husband, and making
you think | was motivated by anything but the love in my heart for you and our girls.

Whether married or not, one thing is for certain, even after everything that has unfolded:

| love you. I'm always going to love you, and I'm always going to try and do what's best for you - even while separating, whether you're
in the same home or in another, and whether you're Miss Wilson, or Mrs. Myers.

I've dropped all suits filed against you, as that decision was one based on anger and not rationale, and will end this letter being left
completely vulnerable to what you decide to do with it.

| hold nothing against you, as the sliver of hope my gut so strongly feels is worth listening to, because without it, there's nothing left to
guide me.

| can either stand up for our family, or myself.. but not both.. and | choose our family.
With all do respect,

Charlie

From: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com @
Subject: Fwd: All of My Personal Accoints
Date: January 12, 2024 at 11:15 PM
To: dmb575@gmail.com

Scio Forwarded message ---------

From: Charlie Vids <c! i >

Date: Fri, Jan 12, 2024 at 11:05PM

Subject: All of My Personal Accoints

To: Morgan Wilson <' i >

Morgan,

Attached is all of the accounts that | have and the current capital in each.

As far as our main bank account - you have access to it.

There's currently just shy of $2400 after the 2x car payments go through and the $1000 credit card payment | made.
Just want you to know I'm not hiding any finances from you, and never have.

Could we talk soon about stuff? Such as how the job hunt is going and what we can do about the lease?
Communicating during this is crucial.

Thanks,

Charlie

Market Value

3,633.00

Cash Balance Settled Cash Unsettled Cash

4,609.73 1.416.09 3.193.64

Buying Power Options BP
1.416.09 1.416.09

10:58 MG so ul 76%8

= bd

PayPal balance PayPal Rewards

$0.00 0 pts

$0.00

Add money Redeem

Pay in 4 prequalified amount

$900

Quant Data LLC
$149.99 autopay Jan 16

Most saved offers this week

% FragranceNet
5% Cash Back

xX iw

fea

ee

Pay
You
sim

Sti

Quay Australia US
3.5% Cash Back ©

xX iw
PetSmart
1% Cash Back C+
Send Request
Home Finances Payments Deals Wallet

<
QI @ so’ ul 75%e

Capital) 1e

PLATINU Mx
a
SABE

Current Balance

$()00

Available Credit

@ Your card ending in ...3053 is locked

Scheduled Payments ¢

Due Date: No Payment Due

AutoPay: OFF | Set Up AutoPay

Make A Payment

¥& Special Offers VIEW ALL

Recent Transactions View All

4: @

Benefits Profile
x

RI @ so° wil 75%e

Capital re

GMUutC KS [L-V-E #2274

Zo”

Current Balance

+1310” 2

Find out quickly if you exceed your limit.

Scheduled Payments :

Due Date: Feb 6 by 8:00 PM ET

AutoPay: ON | Settings

Make A Payment

Track your $200 bonus SHOW LESS

endiés

<1NA 2G ¢206 71

vi @

Benefits Profile

NY a 56" al 75%@

Capital One

PLATINUM.»

*830*

Current Balance
$7 Q°2
Available Credit

@ Your card ending in ...8972 is locked

Scheduled Payments

Due Date: No Payment Due

AutoPay: OFF | Set Up AutoPay

Make A Payment

From: Charlie Vids chuckdustini2@gmail.com
Subject: CEASE AND DESIST - Immediate Action Required
Date: January 8, 2024 at 1:09 AM
To: Morgan Wilson morganmw02@gmail.com

Dear Morgan Myers,

This is a direct and uncompromising demand for you to immediately cease and desist from your ongoing detrimental actions, which
are severely impacting not only my life but more importantly, the lives of our children. Your conduct throughout our divorce
proceedings has been both harmful and deceitful.

Your constant choice to put your friends as a priority - even throuh these proceedings - and your consistent unwillingness to
communicate - are a vital role in this matter.

| require clear and immediate answers to these specific questions:

On the Eviction Attempt:

How do you justify trying to evict me from our home, where | have been a constant and caring presence for our children?

What real purpose does my eviction serve, other than to disrupt the stable and loving environment our children need and deserve?

Can you explain how evicting me aligns with the interests of our children, or is it simply a tactic to unsettle and unbalance our family
further?

On Your Questionable Actions:

Why have you chosen to step outside our marriage to communicate and build relationships, notably with individuals like Debbie and
Damen?

Why have you continuously chosen to communicate with third parties? Why are you allowing still, even in these proceedings, others to
influence you in bad faith? Why has there been no inclusion of me in any conversations that have taken place?

What is the true motive behind obtaining a second phone line and keeping that number secret from me, if our goal is to co-parent
effectively?

How can you justify falsely claiming a protective order against me in court documents, seemingly as a tactic to bypass legal
processes?

Why have you not sought full-time employment to contribute to the financial stability and future of our family?

On Your Misleading Allegations:

Where is your evidence to support the serious and damaging claims of family violence you've made against me?

Why continue to demand bank statements when you've had unfettered access to our financial information throughout our marriage?
Can you provide any factual basis for the numerous accusations you've levied against me, or are they merely fabricated to gain an

upper hand in our divorce, or to escape accountability for your part in the marriage?

Your actions have not only undermined my role as a father but have also threatened the very foundation of stability and security our
children rely upon. | demand that you immediately cease and desist all further dishonest accusations without cause in the form of an
exhibit.

This situation demands immediate rectification, and | urge you to consider the serious implications of your actions on our family.

Sincerely,

Charles Dustin Myers
Your Husband

From
Subject
Date

To

: Charlie Vids chuckdustint2@gmail.com @
: Affidavit for Lawsuit

: January 1, 2024 at 6:51 PM

: Morgan Wilson morganmw02@gmail.com

Morgan,

After countless attempts to communicate with you regarding your intentionally misleading claims filed with the court, it appears you do
not take this situation seriously.

Your disregard for our children’s welfare, coupled with your concerted effort alongside your family to unlawfully remove me from my
home and intentionally make false statements, is unacceptable.

Should you remain unwilling to address the situation responsibly, | am left with no option but to consider pursuing criminal charges to
protect my legal rights and feel it would be in the best interest of our children.

Due to the severity of these actions, please reply within 48 hours so we may come to an amicable resolution and prevent any further
harm to our lives, and our children's future.

Attached is a copy of the affidavit that ! will be filing with the court 48 hours from now if no resolution can be met.

Respectfully,

Charles Myers

Affidavit.pdf

From: Charlie Vids chuckdustini2@gmail.com
Subject: Immediate Action Required: Withdrawal of False Protective Order and Other Concerns
Date: January 1, 2024 at 2:01 PM
To: Morgan Wilson morganmw02@gmail.com

Dear Morgan,

| am writing for the final time to address the recent and deeply concerning actions that have transpired, actions which necessitate
immediate attention and rectification.

Your collaboration with Dan, under the false pretense of legal representation, has led to unauthorized financial transactions from our
joint account into his PayPal account. This act has severely compromised our financial stability and has directly impacted my
professional obligations. It raises significant ethical and legal questions, especially since Dan is not licensed to practice law, yet he
referred to himself as your ‘client’. | have all of this in evidence.

Additionally, the unwarranted withdrawal of funds based on Dan's guidance, coupled with the filing of false reports, is both deceptive
and potentially criminal. This conduct is a direct affront to the legal standards meant to govern our divorce proceedings fairly and
justly.

Given the gravity of these actions, | am contemplating all legal avenues, which include pursuing criminal charges for the misleading
practices and the unauthorized withdrawal of funds, and the intentional lying on sworn documents by you in an attempt to slander my
character and gain an unfair advantage in the divorce proceedings.

In light of these events, | expect the following corrective measures to be taken immediately:
Withdrawal of the Protective Order:

The false and misleading protective order alleging family violence must be retracted. The claims are without merit and have imposed
unnecessary restrictions, directly affecting my ability to be present for our children - a stark contradiction to the divorce petition request
for joint conservatorship.

Resolution of the Unlawful Eviction:

| ask that you discuss with your grandmother the withdrawal of the illegal eviction notice. Divorce is not a lawful cause for eviction, and
invoking the protective order, which is still under judicial review, is inappropriate and misleading, as well as unlawful. If granted - it
would be next to impossible to secure housing - which is not in the best interest for our children.

Full Disclosure of Financial Activities:

You must provide a detailed explanation for the withdrawal of funds into your "personal account," especially in light of your claim of
financial inability to pay for your divorce petition. As we are still under the regime of community property, transparency in our financial
dealings is paramount.

Halt to Divorce Proceedings Discussion:

Until these critical issues are resolved and all false statements are rectified, discussions around the divorce proceedings are to be
paused. The foundation of our negotiations must be built on honesty and factual accuracy.

Start thinking about the children:

None of your actions have been what's best for the children - but rather a calculated series of steps to run away from accountability,
and a joint effort by you and other members of your family to up-root our financial stability and living arrangements - something that
would be detrimental to our children as you have no means to provide, and all important and relevant questions have been asked by
me - with little to no communication on your end.

The recent decisions you have made, in collaboration with certain family members, are not only deeply concerning but also seem to
be a deliberate effort to destabilize our family’s financial security and living conditions. Such actions are not only reckless but also
show a lack of consideration for the long-term impact on our children's lives.

Your refusal to engage in meaningful communication has only compounded these issues. Essential questions concerning our
children's future, their well-being, and how we plan to co-parent under these new circumstances have been met with silence or
insufficient responses from your end. This lack of communication is not only unhelpful but also exacerbates the already challenging
situation we find ourselves in.

| implore you to reconsider the trajectory of your actions. Our children deserve a stable, secure, and nurturing environment, and your
current approach risks depriving them of this. | am prepared to take whatever steps are necessary to ensure their well-being is
prioritized and safeguarded.

Morgan, it is within your power to rectify these matters, and | urge you to do so promptly. Should these issues remain unaddressed, |
am prepared to defend my rights vigorously and demonstrate the falsity of the claims against me while substantiating my assertions.

Your unwillingness to communicate on these key issues further demonstrates your lack of concern for anyone but yourself in this
situation.

| await your prompt and constructive response.
Sincerely,

Charles Myers

From: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com
Subject: Fwd: Subject: Imperative Reconsideration of Our Case: A Detailed Analysis and Proposal
Date: January 5, 2024 at 5:04 PM
To: dmb575@gmail.com

seeceeeene Forwarded message ---------

From: Charlie Vids <chuckdustin!2.@umail com>

Date: Fri, Jan 5, 2024 at 4:56PM

Subject: Re: Subject: Imperative Reconsideration of Our Case: A Detailed Analysis and Proposal
To: Morgan Myers <morganmw02@ gmail.com>

Dear Morgan Myers,
| am writing to address the significant concerns raised in your recent communication and to clarify my stance on the evolving situation.

Firstly, it is imperative to acknowledge the stark discrepancy between the nature of your divorce petition and the protective order you
have filed. The protective order, based on allegations that lack substantiation, not only contradicts the initial grounds of our divorce but
also unfairly tarnishes my reputation and has serious implications for our family's future. Utilizing such a measure as leverage in our
divorce proceedings is neither just nor lawful.

Regarding the financial aspects, | am committed to providing all necessary information in a transparent manner. However, this process
must be reciprocal to ensure fairness and equity. The detailed disclosure of financial information, including account numbers,
balances, IRA accounts, brokerage, and retirement accounts, and the tax identification number of my company, will be conducted in a
manner that reflects our mutual responsibilities and rights.

Concerning the living arrangements, your insistence on me vacating our family home at 6641 Anne Ct Watauga. TX 76148, without a
solid, mutually agreed-upon plan, is not reasonable. Decisions regarding our living situation must be made with careful consideration
of our daughters’ stability and well-being. Unilaterally dictating terms is not conducive to a constructive resolution.

The involvement of third parties, particularly the actions of Dan and your grandmother, raises serious legal and ethical concerns. Their
attempts to influence the case through means such as unlawful eviction notices and financial manipulations are unacceptable and
potentially violate legal boundaries. If it is discovered that you falsified the documents on the advice of Dan - and it is found that he
has no license to practice law - this is a serious matter that | will pursue legally.

Your assistance in this proceeding has done nothing but convolute the case - as they are operating off of a one sided narrative
operating off of non-facts.

| must stress that until these unlawful acts are addressed and rectified, proceeding with any divorce negotiations seems impractical
and unwise. The use of an unlawful eviction notice and a baseless protective order as leverage in our divorce is a strategy | cannot
condone or participate in. These issues highlight the necessity of resolving our situation through the court, where objective and lawful
decisions can be made.

| understand your desire to no longer live with me - however - this does not give you the right to use your family to meddle in our
business without knowing the fact, and also does not give your grandmother the right to unlawfully pursue eviction based on
concurrent proceedings.

You will not use your illegal and unlawful attempts of removing me from the family home as leverage.

This is not only unethical, but shows a clear lack of commitment by you to resolve these issues in a manner that best suits our
children.

Until the following tasks are completed, | have no incentive to cooperate with you considering the nature of your false allegations and
unreasonable expectations as well as disregard for the law and due process.

1. Movement of Funds by Dan's Advice:
The evidence at hand indicates that Dan, despite lacking legal standing to practice law in Texas, advised you to withdraw funds from
our joint account. This action not only caused significant financial strain but also constitutes unauthorized legal practice. The text

messages corroborating this advice point to a clear violation of legal and ethical boundaries. This move, which resulted in an overdraft
and unpaid bills, is not just morally reprehensible but also illegal.

2. Use of Unlawful Eviction as Leverage:
The eviction notice served, which cites our divorce and a protective order as reasons, is legally unfounded. An eviction based on

these grounds does not comply with Texas property and family law. Utilizing this as a tactic in our divorce is an abuse of legal
processes and constitutes a serious legal infraction.

2 Racalacec Pratartive Ordar:

Me IY re Sr

The protective order filed against me, based on unsubstantiated claims of family violence, is another grave concern. This action not
only affects my personal and professional reputation but also misrepresents the truth in a legal setting. It is imperative to understand
that such allegations, when proven false, can lead to legal repercussions for the accuser.

It is important to recognize that these actions have serious legal consequences. If these issues are not addressed and the unlawful
acts are not withdrawn, they will become central to our legal proceedings. This situation could lead to accountability measures,
including potential legal action against those who have committed these unlawful acts.

| urge you to consider the gravity of the situation and the impact of these actions on our family, especially our daughters. It is essential
to approach our divorce with honesty, fairness, and respect for the legal process. | remain committed to resolving our issues amicably
and lawfully, but this requires a mutual effort to rectify the wrongs that have been done.

In closing, | implore you to reassess your approach and engage in a resolution process that respects legal boundaries and our family's
well-being.

While your claims to be civil are heard - your actions directly contradicts this - as throughout this process you have done nothing other
than impose hardship, mental anguish, and not communicate on important matters while using your family and false allegations to
abuse the process in your favor.

A resolution is not possible outside of the courts until you can resolve these serious legal concerns.
Respectfully,

Charlie

On Fri, Jan 5, 2024, 3:59 PM Morgan Myers <morganmw
Charlie,

@gmail.com> wrote:

On December 1, 2023, | made you aware that | no longer wanted to be together, and that | wanted a divorce. From that moment,
and since then, | have asked for our time with the girls to be shared as evenly as possible. | have mentioned multiple times that | am
not going into this with the intentions of taking the girls away from you or demanding maximum child/spousal support. There was
also a mutual agreement at the beginning of December that you would be moving out of the house after the holidays. Each attempt
I've made to speak to you in more detail about these matters has been met with hostility or bringing up past, personal issues, which
halt all further conversation.

The attempts by you to handle this amicably that you claim to have made were simply you making demands that | withdraw
everything I've filed so we can start again on your terms. You've even gone as far as to say that you will deny my attempt to
withdraw the protective order, which directly contradicts this latest email from you. This has been the pattern since the moment |
asked for divorce, which has made this entire process very difficult to navigate. If you are truly willing to have a civil conversation
about moving forward, | am open and willing to sit down with you. If that's the case, | request that your attorney (or witness of your
choice) join along with a witness that | choose. Otherwise, I'd like all communication about our divorce be done via email. During
this conversation, we need to discuss the following topics:

Custody Agreements

As I've mentioned, | do not want to keep you out of Mara and Caroline's life. You are their father, and have been a very good father
to them. | don't want to jeopardize their relationship with you. That being said, | believe it is in the best interest for them that we split
our time evenly. For easy filing with the court, | suggest we go by the state of Texas' standard. Of course, we can make our own
arrangements outside of this and use the standard as a fall back should any problems or concerns with each other. As the parent
listed first to contact in an emergency at school, and as the parent that takes them to scheduled and urgent doctor appointments, |
would see it fitting to have myself listed at the primary parent. This is the state standard visitation:

Standard Child Visitation Schedule in TX

Under a standard possession order in Texas, if the parents live less than 100 miles apart, then the parent with whom the
child(ren) do not primarily live (Charlie) typically has possession of the children on the first, third, and fifth weekends of the
month, beginning on Friday at either the time school lets out or 6:00 p.m. and ending on Sunday at 6:00 p.m.

The non-custodial parent will also have child visitation every Thursday, beginning at either the time that school lets out or
6:00 p.m. and ending at 8:00 p.m.

If the parents reside more than 100 miles apart, then the non-custodial parent has the choice between the first, third, and
fifth weekends of the month or one weekend per month.

Summer Visitation in TX

During the summer, the non-custodial parent is awarded 30 consecutive days in the summer and must provide notice to
the other parent by April 1st of the 30 days they want, or it will automatically default to July 1-31st.

The primary parent (custodial parent) has the option of having a weekend visitation during the 30 days if they provide
notice of the date by April 15th.

If the parents reside more than 100 miles apart, then the non-custodial parent is awarded 42 days in the summer. The
parent must give notice of their 42 days (which can be broken up into two periods of possession) by April 1st, or it will
automatically default to June 15th through July 27th.

The primary parent then has the option of having two non-consecutive weekend visitations during the 42 days if they
provide notice by April 15th.

Holiday Visitation Schedules

Holidays are divided between the parents on an even/odd year basis. One parent will have Thanksgiving in even years
and the other will have Christmas in even years, and then the parents switch for odd years. Holidays typically only cover
Thanksgiving, Christmas, and spring break, but provisions can be included for every holiday.

If the parents reside less than 100 miles apart, then the parents typically rotate spring break on an even/odd basis. If the
parents reside over 100 miles apart, the parent who does not have primary possession is awarded spring break every
year.

If there is anything further you wish to discuss regarding custody agreements, please let me know.

Financial Obligations
| will not walk into any discussion or court proceedings asking a judge to grant me the maximum available child or spousal support.

If the court decides that child support be paid, | will leave it to their discretion to decide the amount. | have multiple applications out
for full-time positions, and have received an offer for a job to begin training on January 22, 2024. | will not ask you to cover bills for
the house once we are no longer living together. | would request that assets | am unaware of be split, or at least some percentage
be granted to me to ensure our children are provided for. Below is the standard child support for Texas. Again, | will not make any
specific demands for support. It will be entirely up to the court.

Child Support

Texas standard- Texas child support laws provide the following Guideline calculations: one child= 20% of Net Monthly
Income ; two children = 25% of Net Monthly Income. Texas law provides that in order to compute net monthly income, the
court should first calculate gross income on an annual basis and then recalculate to determine the average monthly gross
income, meaning the court will divide the annual net income/resources by 12 to come up with monthly net resources.

In determining gross income, the court will calculate net resources. Resources include: all wages and salary, interests,
dividends, royalty income, self-employment income, net rental income, all other income actually being received, including
severance, retirement, pensions, social security, unemployment, disability and workers’ compensation among numerous
other income categories.

The court will then deduct the following: social security taxes; federal income tax; state income tax; union dues; health
insurance for the child.

In regards to the $1,576 | transferred from the PNC account, | am willing to provide my bank statement showing the money entering
my account, and what it has been used for since then. | can send those in a separate email once | get that prepared. In exchange, |
kindly request the provision of comprehensive financial documentation, specifically copies of all bank statements spanning the last
three years. | will require detailed information encompassing account numbers and balances for all financial accounts, inclusive of
but not limited to, the IRA account with a reported balance of $38,000. Furthermore, please provide details on any brokerage
accounts, company checking accounts, 401k or other retirement accounts, and all credit cards associated with your financial
portfolio. Additionally, | request disclosure of your company's tax identification number and any accounts associated with your
professional activities.

Moreover, | seek pertinent contact information for the entities with which you have indicated collaboration in London and Germany.
As per your earlier reference to an upcoming business trip in January 2024 for the purpose of "closing a deal worth $10,000 a
month," | would appreciate details on the companies involved to facilitate further communication and verification.

If there is anything further you wish to discuss regarding finances, please let me know.

Living Arrangements

Throughout your voice messages, texts, emails, and filings you've made, it is clear that you now have no intention of leaving, even
after our divorce is final. | feel that | need to make this clear - | do not want to continue living together. I'd request that you hold true
to the original agreement that you find your own home. I'm happy to assist, if requested. In the best interest of the girls, | do not

sarant vai ta and uiniuith an aviatinn an vai, ranard oc thot will hindor firtiuira rantal nrnenarte chaiild unit nhAnca tan rant Thie ran

vers yyy w orm Mp vera Cal Ovi wer yvu PUVYEI, HO LPCAE WHITE PttENE HU FOr vMiverevYy, viru yvyu VIIVYOY tY TUT. Frio Var
be avoided by providing our landlord, Margie Wilson, with a date that you agree to vacate the premises. I'd like to be included in the
discussion of the date that is chosen, as | would recommend the date be set for January 31, 2024.

If there is anything further you wish to discuss about living arrangements, please let me know.

After all of this has been agreed upon, and we have a solid foundation for what we will do moving forward, | will withdraw the
protective order application. We can also go to the courthouse at that time to file a divorce decree that outlines all agreements we
come to. | need to emphasize that | will not withdraw any filings I've made until | feel secure in our plan for the future. Please let me
know if you prefer discussing in-person with witnesses, or via email.

Thank you.
Morgan Myers

On Fri, Jan 5, 2024 at 10:19AM Charlie Vids <chuckdustini2@aqmail.com> wrote:
Dear Morgan,

| am writing to you with utmost seriousness regarding our ongoing divorce and related legal proceedings. This communication is
not just about us but primarily about our children and their future. We are at a crucial point where our decisions will have long-
lasting effects. | implore you to consider the following detailed reasons for filing a joint motion to dismiss and re-evaluating our
situation collaboratively:

Conservatorship Contradiction:

Our mutual request for joint conservatorship is in stark contradiction with the protective order you've filed against me. This order,
based on unfounded claims, directly conflicts with the idea of shared parenting responsibilities. Pursuing this in court will
inevitably bring these contradictions to light, potentially undermining both our cases.

Questionable Eviction Process:

The eviction proceedings initiated by your grandmother, coupled with the subsequent voiding of the eviction notice, exhibit a lack
of due diligence and responsibility. If scrutinized in court, this could reflect poorly on the integrity of your claims and question the
motivations behind them.

Dan’s Financial Intrusion:

Dan’s involvement in our financial matters has not only created undue strain but also sets a precedent for external interference in
our private affairs. The discovery process in court will uncover all relevant financial transactions and communications, likely
bringing unwelcome scrutiny and consequences.

Implications of a Conspiracy:

The collective actions of your party paint a disturbing picture of a concerted effort to damage my credibility with baseless
allegations of family violence. A court case would involve a thorough investigation into these claims, exposing the lack of
substantiation behind them.

Risks to Parent-Child Bonds:

Our current path is dangerously close to irreparably harming the relationship | share with our children. Legal battles, especially
those involving family violence allegations, can create lasting emotional and psychological scars on children.

Your Economic Viability: Without a full time job or a clear plan for the future, these proceedings put you at risk of financial
instability. This concern extends to our children’s well-being, as their living standards and opportunities are directly tied to our
economic health.

Necessity of My Financial Stability:

My capacity to earn and provide is critical, especially during such tumultuous times. Dragging out legal disputes threatens this
stability, which is crucial for maintaining our family’s lifestyle and future prospects.

Validity of Your Claims:

The claims you've made, including the inability to pay court fees and allegations in the protective order, are factually questionable
and will be rigorously contested in court. This process is not only emotionally taxing but will also strain our resources.

Inaccuracies in Divorce Filings:
There are several errors in the divorce petition, such as incorrect vehicle information. These inaccuracies point to a broader issue

of carelessness in the legal process, which could jeopardize the legitimacy of your claims. Also - the 60-day period that was
uniustlv waived is essential to our olannino of our senarated future

Spey Soe See were: te St geernereenrgges ee eepew nee peeenes

Essentiality of Bilateral Communication:

The lack of open and honest communication between us has significantly contributed to the current situation. For any resolution
to be effective and lasting, both parties must actively participate in the conversation. A unilateral approach is unsustainable,
unacceptable, and not in the best interest of our children.

Last Chance for Amicable Settlement:

| view this as our final opportunity to resolve our differences without the need for a protracted legal battle. A court case is not in
the best interest of anyone involved, especially our children.

Protecting Non-Parties:

By finding a mutual ground now, we can prevent further unnecessary involvement of third parties like Dan and Margie. Our focus
should be on doing what is right for us and, most importantly, for our children.

In conclusion, | strongly urge you to consider this proposal to file a joint motion to dismiss. This is not a surrender but a strategic
pause, a chance for us to reassess and approach our situation with a fresh perspective, keeping the best interests of our children
at the forefront. Let's come together for their sake and ours.

Conclusion:

If you wish to file the joint motion of dismissal - please respond before 4:00pm CST today - and we can come together and draft
this document, and start getting on the right track in all of this.

Sincerely,
Charles Dustin Myers

Morgan Myers
(817)235-5189

From: Charlie Vids chuckdustin12@gmail.com
Subject: Re: Subject: Request for Dialogue Regarding Cause No. 32744826323 and 3274453823
Date: December 31, 2023 at 10:00 PM
To: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com

Dear Morgan,

Your recent communication regarding the terms of our divorce and the proposed meeting necessitates a forthright response, given the
severity of the actions you have taken.

Protective Order and Divorce Petition:

| am deeply troubled by the baseless allegations made in both the protective order application and the divorce petition. These actions
are not only unfounded but also manipulative, directly contradicting the evidence in our text communications leading up to December
14th.

Such actions reflect a deliberate attempt to undermine my character and position, which | find unacceptable and harmful, especially
considering the impact on our children.
Legal Action by Your Grandmother:

The attempt by your grandmother to evict me from our family home is another concerning development. This move, which appears to
be coordinated and malicious, further complicates our situation.

These legal maneuvers suggest a concerted effort to destabilize my life and our children's lives, actions that are far from being in our
family's best interest.

Terms for Moving Forward:
Under these circumstances, any discussion about divorce terms is premature and cannot proceed in good faith.

The first step towards any meaningful communication or negotiation must be the retraction of the protective order and a correction of
the misleading statements in the divorce petition.

Further, the issue with your grandmother needs to be resolved immediately and amicably, as it is a direct attack on my rights and our
children’s stability.

Prioritizing Our Children’s Well-being:

Our children's welfare remains my top priority. The current trajectory of these proceedings, influenced by deceit and legal intimidation,
is not conducive to their well-being.
Any agreements or discussions moving forward must be grounded in honesty and a genuine concern for what is best for our children.

Conditions for Future Discussions:

| am open to discussions regarding our divorce and future co-parenting arrangements, but only after these grave issues have been
addressed and rectified.

| suggest that we both take a step back to assess the impact of our actions and approach future discussions with a renewed sense of
responsibility and integrity.

Your actions have left me no choice but to defend myself vigorously against these unfounded accusations and legal challenges. It is
my hope that we can find a way to move forward in a manner that is fair, respectful, and, above all, considers the well-being of our
children.

Sincerely,
Charles Myers

On Sun, Dec 31, 2023 at 4:52PM Morgan Myers <morganimw02@ omail.com> wrote:
Charlie,

| would like to have a conversation about terms of divorce, where each of us brings a witness. |'m willing to cancel the application
for a protective order if we can come to an agreement moving forward regarding custody agreements, financial obligations, and
living arrangements.

Please let me know when you're available for this.

Morgan Myers

On Fri, Dec 29, 2023, 6:52 PM Charlie Vids <chuckdustin|2G@ gmail com> wrote:
Dear Morgan,

| am reaching out in regard to the current legal matters between us, specifically related to Cause No. 32744826323 and
3274453823 before the Tarrant County District Court.

After earafiil nancidaratian nf tha nandina Orininal Patitinn far Divarrea and the Anniicatinn far Pratactive Order | natire a

he td ae oe ae OOOO) Tete Oc eT Oren Oren S Uae Oa ECT OrPmr Tere ereaney

discrepancy that | believe warrants a discussion. The request for joint conservatorship in our divorce proceedings seems
contradictory to the protective order application, particularly considering the timing of the allegations made prior to the divorce
filing.

With this in mind, and with respect to the gravity of the proceedings, | would like to propose an opportunity for us to address these
inconsistencies and explore potential resolutions. While | am prepared to defend my rights and present my case in court, | firmly
believe that an open dialogue, possibly with a mediator's aid, could serve both of our best interests and potentially facilitate a
more amicable resolution.

| propose that we consider the following:

A meeting to discuss the matters at hand, with the option of involving a neutral third party to mediate.

A careful review of the allegations and claims, to ensure accuracy and fairness in both the divorce proceedings and the protective
order application.

The possibility of withdrawing the Application for Protective Order to prevent further court action, provided we can come to a
mutual understanding.

Please note that this communication is made in good faith, aiming for a resolution that minimizes conflict. Should we not find
common ground, please be advised that | am prepared to proceed with legal representation to defend against the Application for
Protective Order and to assert my rights under the law.

| look forward to your response and am hopeful we can navigate this situation with cooperation and mutual respect.
You can reach me at your convenience via email or by phone at 817-507-6562.
Sincerely,

Charles Dustin Myers
chuckdustin1 2 @ gmail.com

From: Morgan Myers morganmw02@gmail.com
Subject: Fwd: Addressing the Web of Lies and Deception
Date: December 27, 2023 at 9:15 PM
To: Roxanne Wilson lasher50@sbcglobal.net

stomeress Forwarded message ---------

From: Charlie Vids <chuckdustini2.¢ gmail. com>
Date: Wed, Dec 27, 2023 at 9:09 PM

Subject: Addressing the Web of Lies and Deception
To: Morgan Wilson <morganmyw02@ gmail com>

Morgan,

It's time to cut through the deceit and face the harsh reality of the situation you're
creating. Your actions are not just misguided; they're destructive and threaten to
tear apart the very fabric of our family.

You've entangled yourself with Debbie, Damen, and Dan, the so-called lawyer
whose advice is anything but professional or ethical. This trio's influence is
steering you down a path fraught with legal and moral peril. Consider for a
moment the ramifications of your actions, not just for our immediate
circumstances but for the long-term impact on our children's lives.

The claim of harassment, used as a pretext for obtaining a second phone, is a
clear diversion tactic. This isn't about harassment; it's about your desire to
operate without accountability. Your reluctance to be transparent about your
communications with Debbie and Damen only serves to erode any remaining trust
between us.

Dan's unauthorized involvement in our financial affairs, directing funds from our
joint account to his own, borders on the criminal. His lack of legal credentials
makes this even more alarming. Can you not see the potential legal disaster you
are inviting with his continued involvement?

Your tactic of isolating me from conversations with your family is a calculated
effort to control the narrative. This exclusion allows you to propagate untruths
without challenge. But ask yourself, what does it benefit you if these lies destroy
the respect and trust our children may hold for us?

The most damaging of all is your false allegation of family violence in the divorce
petition. This is not just a lie; it's a weapon you're using to unfairly gain leverage in
our divorce. Have you considered the irreversible harm this could do to our
family's dynamic, especially to our children's perception of me, their father?

You then proceeded to weaponize your grandparents in an attempt to get me
thrown out of the family home - right bedoe Christmas - in an unjust fashion. This
is deplorable behavior.

Morgan, | implore you to step back and look at the bigger picture. The path you're
on is leading to a future filled with legal battles, broken relationships, and a legacy
of deceit. Is this the example vot want to set for oir children? Is this the memorv

of their family's dissolution you want to imprint in their minds?

| am reaching out not to escalate our conflict but to appeal to your sense of
reason and responsibility. For the sake of our family, especially our children, | urge
you to reflect on the consequences of your actions and reconsider the course
you're taking.

It's not too late to change direction and approach these challenges with honesty
and integrity. Let's resolve our differences in a manner that we can look back on
without regret, for the well-being of our entire family.

Charles

From: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com
Subject: FW: Girls at school CL-12105
Date: November 24, 2025 at 10:39 AM
To: Cooper Carter attorneycoopercarter@gmail.com

wo-------- Forwarded message ---------
From: FUDSTOP <chuckdustin12(@gmail.com>

Date: Thu, Feb 20, 2025 at 4:03 PM

Subject: Girls at school

To: Morgan Wilson <morganmw02(@gmail.com>
Hey,

Pretty disgusting that despite the girls having someone able to come and pick them up,
you're actively telling them not to as if it's going to help your case.

It won't.
I gave my reasons for not picking them up - it puts them at an unnecessary risk, I don't have
food here at the house for them, and am lucky if I'll make it until next week due to the

significant damage you've caused.

It's absurd that you think something like this would make a difference in your case you've
failed to defend or prosecute.

You're completely relying on illegal tactics and are now using our children as pawns in this
divorce.

Again, instead of using the children as pawns, have your attorney file a motion for contempt
if you feel I'm violating the orders that you don't even follow yourself.

Unbelievable.

Charlie

From: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com
Subject: FW: Ongoing Emotional Abuse, Declining Academics, and Gaslighting CL-12105
Date: November 24, 2025 at 10:37 AM
To: Cooper Carter attorneycoopercarter@gmail.com

From: Morgan Myers [mailto:morganmw02@gmail.com]

Sent: Thursday, February 27, 2025 5:14 PM

To: Cooper Carter

Subject: Fwd: Ongoing Emotional Abuse, Declining Academics, and Gaslighting CL-12105

w--------- Forwarded message ---------
From: FUDSTOP <chuckdustin12(@gmail.com>

Date: Thu, Feb 27, 2025 at 4:58 PM

Subject: Ongoing Emotional Abuse, Declining Academics, and Gaslighting
To: Morgan Wilson <morganmw02(@gmail.com>

Hello Morgan,

The children have informed me of multiple statements you’ ve made, including:

That you’re "glad I’m 45 minutes away."

That you and your boyfriend are celebrating an "anniversary" while we are still legally
married.

That we are already divorced, which is false.

These statements have been recorded and will be used as evidence of parental alienation and
emotional harm to the children. Texas courts recognize such actions as psychological abuse
and grounds for custody modification.

Additionally, Maras academic performance has dropped from the top 10% to the top 30%,
which directly correlates with the instability and interference caused under your care and my

inability to be in their daily lives due to your dishonesty.

This further strengthens the legal case against you for Child negligence, psychological
abuse, and parental alienation.

Caroline's untreated cavities have also been documented showcasing your neglect to provide
essential medical care.

Your fantastic world is causing chaos in their lives, and it will be put to an end.

If you want a divorce, do your part.

Otherwise, were about to be married for ten years! Can you believe it?

Charlie

From: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com
Subject: FW: Due Diligence and your continued Cowardice CL-12105
Date: November 24, 2025 at 10:36 AM
To: Cooper Carter attorneycoopercarter@gmail.com

From: Morgan Myers [mailto:morganmw02@gmail.com]

Sent: Friday, February 28, 2025 11:36 PM

To: Cooper Carter

Subject: Fwd: Due Diligence and your continued Cowardice CL-12105

---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: FUDSTOP <chuckdustin12@gmail.com>
Date: Fri, Feb 28, 2025 at 7:03 PM

Subject: Due Diligence and your continued Cowardice
To: Morgan Wilson <morganmw02@gmail.com>

Misconduct in Texas Divorce Cases: Legal
Consequences

Divorces in Texas can be affected by various forms of misconduct. Different actions—
ranging from financial misdeeds to dishonesty and neglect—carry specific legal
consequences under Texas law. Below is an analysis of each listed action, including relevant
statutes/case law, potential penalties, real-case examples, and the impact on divorce
outcomes (property division, child custody, and financial orders).

1. Lying on an Affidavit of Inability to Pay Court Fees

Relevant Law: Filing a “Statement of Inability to Afford Court Costs” (pauper’s affidavit)
in Texas requires a declaration under penalty of perjury that the information is true.
Knowingly lying on such an affidavit is perjury under Texas Penal Code §37.02.

Because this affidavit is submitted in a court proceeding, a false material statement may
qualify as aggravated perjury (Texas Penal Code §37.03)

Texas courts explicitly warn that making false statements “under penalty of perjury” in a
fee-waiver affidavit can lead to criminal prosecution
Criminal/Civil Penalties: Perjury in Texas is a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to 1

year in county jail and a $4,000 fine.

If the false statement is made in connection with an official proceeding (like a court case)

and is material, it constitutes aggravated perjury, a third-degree felony carrying 2-10 years
in prison and up to a $10,000 fine.

In addition to criminal liability, a person caught lying on a court-cost affidavit will likely
lose the fee waiver — the court can require them to pay the fees and may sanction the deceit.
While not common, judges can refer the matter to the district attorney; Texas judges take
perjury seriously and have, in extreme instances, ordered a lying party to be immediately
escorted for booking on perjury charges.

Enforcement Examples: There are few reported cases purely about false indigence
affidavits, but perjury prosecutions do occur. For example, Tarrant County prosecutors have
charged individuals with aggravated perjury months after investigating false statements in
court proceedings

The affidavit form itself cautions that false statements can be prosecuted., underscoring that
authorities view this as a crime. Even if criminal charges are not pursued, courts can impose
consequences within the divorce case: a judge may revoke any temporary relief granted
based on the false affidavit and could order the lying party to pay the other side’s attorney’s
fees incurred due to the misconduct.

Impact on Divorce Outcome: Being caught in a lie to the court severely undermines a
litigant’s credibility. In a divorce, credibility is crucial when proving income, assets, or
fitness as a parent. A spouse who lies about their inability to pay fees may be presumed to
be dishonest in other testimony, harming their case. For instance, if one party lied about
finances to avoid court fees, a judge might doubt their disclosures about marital assets or
income. This could lead to stricter scrutiny of their financial claims and potentially a less
favorable property division for the dishonest party. In custody matters, while lying about
court fees isn’t directly about the children, it reflects on the person’s integrity; a judge could
question that party’s honesty in child-related testimony. Overall, such a lie may not carry a
specific family-law penalty beyond loss of the fee waiver, but it poisons the court’s trust,
which can influence every aspect of the divorce judgment.

2. Theft of Marital Funds

Relevant Law: In Texas, money or property acquired during marriage is generally
community property belonging to both spouses. Each spouse owes a fiduciary duty to the
other in managing community assets.

If one spouse wrongfully takes, conceals, or spends marital funds for their sole benefit
without the other’s consent, it may be treated as fraud on the community (also called waste
or dissipation of assets). Texas Family Code §7.009 provides that if a spouse is found to
have committed actual or constructive fraud on the community, the court must calculate the
value of the misappropriated funds and reconstitute the community estate, then divide it in a
“just and right” manner.

In practice, this means the wronged spouse can receive a greater share of the remaining

ce a . 4 C 1 m~ a

community property or a money juagment to compensate ror the stolen Tunas. Un tne
criminal side, outright theft by a spouse can fall under general theft laws. Texas Penal Code
§31.03 defines theft as unlawfully appropriating property with intent to deprive the owner of
it. A spouse taking funds belonging to the other spouse’s separate property, or by fraud (for
example, forging the spouse’s signature to withdraw money), could be charged with theft or
fraud.

Potential Penalties:

e Civil/Divorce Penalties: The primary remedy in a divorce for “theft” of community
funds is an unequal property division. Courts can award the innocent spouse a
disproportionate share of the community estate or a money judgment to make up
for the loss.

In extreme cases, judges have effectively awarded 100% of certain assets to the
innocent spouse when the other dissipated or hid funds. For example, in Boothe v.
Boothe (Tex. App. 2023), the trial court found the wife had committed fraud and
waste of community assets (including stealing the husband’s checkbooks and
misusing funds); the court responded by awarding the husband virtually the entire
community estate (the wife received only her personal clothing).

Likewise, if one spouse diverted community money for an affair or personal use, the
spent sums can be counted against that spouse in the division. Texas law permits
judges to “reconstitute” the estate by adding back the value of misused funds, then
award a larger portion of what remains (or a cash judgment) to the wronged spouse.
The divorce court may also order the guilty spouse to pay the other’s attorney fees as
a form of sanction.

e Criminal Penalties: While spouses have joint interests in community property,
egregious misappropriation can lead to criminal charges in some instances. Theft
offenses in Texas range from misdemeanors to felonies depending on the value stolen.
For instance, unlawfully taking a large sum (over $30,000) could be a felony theft
charge, with penalties escalating as the amount increases. If a spouse steals from the
other’s separate property (say, empties an inheritance account), that clearly falls
within theft law. Penalties could include restitution, fines, and incarceration (e.g., theft
of $2,500—$30,000 is a state jail felony; larger amounts can be third, second, or first-
degree felonies under Texas Penal Code §31.03). Additionally, if a spouse violates a
court’s temporary restraining order by transferring or hiding marital funds during a
divorce, they can be held in contempt of court (punishable by fines or jail time) in
the civil case. Contempt sanctions often compel the return of funds or incarceration
until compliance.

Enforcement/Case Examples: Texas courts take a dim view of spouses hiding or stealing
assets. Spouses have been found to commit fraud on the community for secretly transferring
funds to third parties or dissipating accounts. In Schlueter v. Schlueter, the Texas Supreme
Court noted that a wronged spouse has an adequate remedy through an unequal property
division, rather than a separate tort suit, when the other spouse misappropriates assets

ws ra . 1 ~ 3 og aa ° # ® 1 ‘ “?>~ -" a 1 v.41 a2 Ose

in practice, juages oIten penalize linancial misconduct. Une 1exas Tirm Observed tnat niaing
assets is “unethical and illegal” and that if caught, “the court may order [the offending
spouse] to forfeit the hidden asset(s) and pay some of [the other] spouses legal fees’’, not to
mention the loss of credibility with the court.

We see this in outcomes like Boothe, where the spouse who stole or misused marital funds
ended up with a far worse financial result. Criminal prosecution of a spouse for asset theft is
less common but not impossible. For example, if a husband secretly siphoned funds into a
personal account and forged documents, he could face charges for forgery, fraud, or theft.
There have been cases outside of divorce (e.g. a former spouse prosecuted for forging
checks on an ex-spouse’s account), illustrating that marital status is not a defense to theft.
Moreover, misusing a child’s trust fund or support payments (such as falsely claiming a
disability for a child to collect support, as in Boothe, can lead not only to civil remedies but
potentially to criminal fraud charges.

Impact on Divorce Settlements, Custody, and Finances: Theft or dissipation of marital
funds primarily affects the property settlement. Texas is a community property state, and
by statute the division must be “just and right” (Tex. Fam. Code §7.001). A spouse who has
stolen or hidden funds will likely receive a smaller portion of the remaining assets as the
court’s way of balancing the equities.

The innocent spouse may recoup the value of missing funds through a greater share of
property or a judgment. This can significantly alter the financial outcome; instead of, say, a
50/50 split, the innocent spouse might get 60, 70, or even 100% of certain assets to offset
the loss. Such misconduct can also influence spousal maintenance or alimony decisions — a
judge may be more inclined to order the offending spouse to pay maintenance if their
wrongdoing worsened the other’s financial position, or conversely may deny an offending
spouse any support. In terms of child custody, misuse of funds typically does not directly
determine conservatorship or visitation rights. However, if the theft involved funds meant
for the children’s care (for example, spending the child’s college fund or support money), it
could reflect on that parent’s judgment and priorities. Courts primarily base custody on the
child’s best interest (Tex. Fam. Code §153.002);so a parent who shows a pattern of
dishonesty or financially endangering the family might be seen as less reliable. Still, absent
a connection to the child’s welfare, financial theft is more likely to impact the financial
orders (property division, child support calculations) than custody arrangements. Finally, if a
spouse’s theft of funds is part of adulterous behavior (gifts to a paramour, etc.), it overlaps
with adultery as a fault ground and can compound the fault-based property award to the
other spouse.

3. Engaging in a Long-Term Affair (Adultery) and Its
Impact on Divorce

Relevant Law: Adultery itself is not a crime in Texas, but it is recognized as marital
misconduct with legal consequences in divorce. Texas Family Code §6.003 explicitly lists
adultery as a fault ground for divorce: “The court may grant a divorce in favor of one
spouse if the other spouse has committed adultery.”

In addition, even in a no-fault divorce, courts may consider adultery when dividing property
or deciding on spousal support. Texas law requires a “just and right” division of community
property at divorce (Tex. Fam. Code §7.001), and the Texas Supreme Court has held that
fault in the breakup of the marriage — including adultery — may be weighed by the court in
making an unequal division.

For example, in Murff v. Murff, the Court affirmed that a trial judge has broad discretion to
consider a spouse’s adultery (among other factors) in allocating a greater share of the estate
to the innocent spouse.

Likewise, Texas Family Code §8.052(10) includes “marital misconduct, including adultery”
as a factor in determining spousal maintenance (alimony) awards.

In short, while an affair does not expose one to criminal charges, it can be legally relevant to
divorce outcomes.

Potential Consequences in the Divorce:

e Property Division: Adultery can financially cost the unfaithful spouse. Judges in
Texas have discretion to award a disproportionate share of community property to the
spouse who was cheated on, as part of a fault-based division. It is not automatic that
adultery will result in an unequal split, but if the innocent spouse can show the affair
contributed to the marriage’s breakdown or involved misuse of marital assets, courts
often adjust the division. For instance, one family law court noted that a judge might
award 60% of the community estate to the faithful spouse and 40% to the
adulterous spouse when adultery is proven.

The rationale is that the adulterer’s conduct breached the marriage and perhaps
economic security of the family, justifying a larger award to the other side.
Additionally, if the cheating spouse spent significant community funds on the affair
(gifts, trips, etc.), the court can count those expenditures as a depletion of the
community estate (a form of constructive fraud/waste). The judge might “recoup” that
by granting the wronged spouse an equivalent amount in extra property.

e Spousal Maintenance (Alimony): Adultery can influence post-divorce support. Texas
is conservative about alimony, but when a spouse does qualify for maintenance under
Chapter 8 of the Family Code, the court “must consider all relevant factors,”
including either spouse’s adultery. This means a cheating spouse asking for
maintenance is less likely to receive it (the court may view their misconduct as a
reason to deny or limit support), whereas a cheated-on spouse may have a stronger
claim for support if needed. While Texas law does not allow punitive alimony, judges
may, for example, lean toward the upper end of the allowed duration or amount for a
spouse who was faithful when the other’s affair caused financial or emotional harm.
Conversely, a spouse who committed adultery might be ordered to pay contractual
alimony or a larger lump-sum as part of the divorce settlement to the other spouse
(this often happens in negotiated settlements, using the fault as leverage). It’s
imnortant to note that adulterv alone doesn’t ouarantee alimonv—there must still he

AAAAp Va een n ee WU Re ee haan Rene tet eme ) weer new ser wae Ott tte wets s ewe waew aw Anaerre Vwsee ww

eligibility under Tex. Fam. Code §8.051 (such as a marriage 10+ years with a spouse
lacking ability to meet minimum needs, etc.), but once eligibility is met, adultery can
tilt the scale on the award.

e Child Custody: By itself, a parent’s extramarital affair is usually not a decisive factor
in child custody or visitation determinations. Texas law mandates that custody
(conservatorship) decisions be made in the “best interest of the child” (Tex. Fam.
Code §153.002)

codes.findlaw.com

. Ordinarily, an affair is an issue between the spouses and does not mean the cheating
parent is unfit to raise the child. Texas courts have generally held that “a parent's
adultery won t affect a judges decision about parenting time” unless the affair
negatively impacted the children.

. For example, if the cheating parent exposed the children to inappropriate situations
(such as involving them in meetings with the lover), neglected the children to carry
on the affair, or if the affair partner poses a risk to the kids, then it becomes relevant.
In such cases, a court could consider the moral environment or safety: perhaps
ordering that the lover not be present during the parent’s visitation, or in extreme
situations, the affair could contribute to a finding that the parent put their needs
above the child’s. However, absent evidence that the affair harmed the child’s well-
being, adultery typically will not change conservatorship. Texas case law reflects
that a parent’s sexual misconduct is only one factor and is outweighed by direct
factors affecting the child. In sum, a long-term affair may influence custody only
indirectly — for instance, if it caused instability or conflict that affected the children,
the judge will factor that into the best-interest analysis. (As one attorney notes,
adultery “could be a factor in deciding who gets custody of the children” only in
limited circumstances.

e It’s more common that adultery affects property and finances rather than custody.

e Other Effects: While not a legal “penalty,” an affair often heightens the acrimony in a
case, which can influence the divorce process. A spouse suing on grounds of adultery
might also seek reimbursement for community funds spent on the affair (as
mentioned) or use the affair as leverage to negotiate a favorable settlement.
Additionally, an affair can bar the adulterer from receiving certain benefits in the
divorce. For example, Texas law bars a spouse from receiving court-ordered spousal
maintenance if they committed adultery and that is the sole ground for divorce (Tex.
Fam. Code §8.053(b)), meaning a cheating spouse cannot get maintenance when the
divorce is granted for adultery. And while rare, adultery can form part of an
intentional infliction of emotional distress claim in Texas (see 7wyman v. Twyman),
but such tort claims are hard to win and usually must be brought within the divorce
case, not separately.

Enforcement/Precedent: Texas courts routinely acknowledge adultery in their rulings.
Fault-based divorces (while less common than no-fault) are still sought by spouses wronged
by infidelity in order to obtain a more favorable outcome. For instance, one Texas appellate

VaOw UPMUIU & WIOPLUPULUUHa ULTIOIUL WILY UY Wile o tug -HL Glad Wuou ney Levu
the trial court awarded the husband a larger share of assets due to the adultery and its
financial effects (the wife had spent substantial funds on her paramour). In another case,
evidence showed the husband’s adultery and lavish spending on his girlfriend; the appellate
court approved an unequal division plus a monetary judgment to the wife to compensate for
those expenditures (treating them as fraud on the community). These cases demonstrate that
judges will enforce consequences for adultery primarily through economic means. Adultery
is also often pleaded alongside other fault grounds (like cruelty), and the cumulative
misconduct can strengthen the innocent spouse’s position. Importantly, because adultery is
not a crime, there are no direct criminal cases on point, but its impact is well documented in
civil divorce jurisprudence. The bottom line: a long-term affair can significantly affect the
divorce settlement — typically harming the cheating spouse’s financial interests — even
though it does not result in criminal penalties.

4. Neglecting to Obtain Medical Care for Children

Relevant Law: Parents in Texas have a legal duty to provide necessary medical care for
their children. Failing to seek or provide medical care can be considered child neglect under
Texas law. Texas Family Code §261.001(4) defines “neglect” to include “failing to seek,
obtain, or follow through with medical care for a child, with the failure resulting in or
presenting an immediate danger of death, disfigurement, or bodily injury or...an observable
and material impairment to the child's growth, development, or functioning. ”.

In other words, if a parent’s omission in getting medical treatment puts the child at risk of
serious harm, it meets the statutory definition of abuse/neglect, triggering intervention by
Child Protective Services (CPS). From a criminal standpoint, such conduct can violate
Texas Penal Code provisions on endangering a child. For example, Texas Penal Code
§22.041(c) makes it an offense if a person “by act or omission, engages in conduct that
places a child in imminent danger of death, bodily injury, or physical or mental
impairment. ”

Failing to obtain urgent medical care (by omission) could fall under this if the child was
placed in imminent danger. Additionally, Penal Code §22.04 (Injury to a Child) can be
implicated if the lack of medical care causes serious injury to the child; a parent can be
criminally liable by omission if they had a legal duty to act.

Potential Penalties:

e Child Welfare Consequences: If a parent neglects a child’s medical needs, CPS can
investigate under Chapter 261 of the Family Code. Substantiated medical neglect can
lead to various outcomes: the court might issue orders for the parent to comply with
medical directives, or in severe cases the child can be removed from that parent’s
custody. A family court may place the child with the other parent or even a
relative/foster care if both parents were neglectful. Ultimately, if the neglect is
extreme and persistent, it can be grounds for termination of parental rights. Texas
Family Code §161.001(b)(1)(D) and (E) allow termination if a parent knowingly

nlaced ar allawed the child ta remain in canditinns that endanger the child’s nhwvsical

PA VA AEN TT Re take WRAR AED ERY Rw RAALEARS BEE WWAALERUAU AA BEELOD WHaretebapnws Edw Waseere & prany Lawn

or emotional well-being, or engaged in conduct (or omitted to act) that endangers the
child. Failing to provide needed medical care falls squarely within “endangering
conduct” when it jeopardizes the child’s health. Termination is a last resort, but lesser
court actions (like temporary removal or court-ordered service plans) are common to
address medical neglect. In private divorce litigation, one parent might file an
emergency motion or request a modification of custody if the other parent’s medical
neglect is endangering the child. Courts can issue temporary restraining orders
requiring a parent to obtain specified treatment for the child.

Criminal Penalties: Child neglect itself is handled through CPS/family courts, but
when it crosses into criminal behavior, charges can ensue. Under Penal Code §22.041
(Child endangerment), if a parent’s failure to get medical care was intentional,
knowing, reckless, or criminally negligent and placed the child in imminent danger,
it’s a state jail felony (or higher, depending on circumstances). For example, a parent
who ignores a child’s serious illness until the child is in life-threatening condition
could be prosecuted for endangerment. If the child actually suffers serious bodily
injury due to lack of care, the parent could be charged under Penal Code §22.04
(Injury to a Child), which ranges from a state jail felony up to a first-degree felony
depending on the level of injury and the parent’s mental state. (Injury causing serious
bodily harm by omission, if done knowingly or intentionally, is typically a first-degree
felony.) These are heavy criminal penalties — e.g., a first-degree felony can mean 5 to
99 years in prison. There is also a specific provision that a person who has legal duty
to a child and causes injury by failing to act can be held responsible. While
prosecution is relatively rare (authorities often prefer to handle through CPS unless a
child is gravely harmed), it does happen in severe neglect cases. A notable example is
when parents refuse life-saving treatment for a child for non-legitimate reasons; Texas
courts have seen cases where parents were charged after a child died from untreated
illnesses (such as diabetes) that would likely have been manageable with proper
medical attention.

Divorce/Custody Orders: In a divorce context (civil court), a parent’s medical neglect
of a child will manifest in custody outcomes. The court can issue orders restricting
that parent’s rights. For instance, the court might award sole managing
conservatorship to the other parent, meaning the responsible parent gets the
exclusive right to make medical decisions for the child. The neglectful parent could be
made possessory conservator with limited rights or supervised visitation. Texas
Family Code §153.002 states the child’s best interest is paramount; a demonstrated
pattern of not obtaining necessary medical care strongly indicates that giving that
parent decision-making or primary custody is not in the child’s best interest. Thus, the
neglectful parent is likely to lose decision-making authority over health matters at
minimum. The court may also order that parent to attend parenting classes or
medical education as a condition of access to the child. If the issue is serious, the
court could require their visits with the child to be supervised by a third party or
contingent on proof that they will follow medical instructions (for example,
administering prescribed medication during their visitation). The neglectful parent
might also be ordered to pay for any medical expenses that resulted from the lack of
care (for example, if their neglect caused the child’s condition to worsen and incur

greater treatment Costs).

Impact on Divorce Settlements, Custody, and Judgments: Neglecting a child’s medical
needs most directly affects child custody (conservatorship) determinations. A parent who
has failed to provide proper medical care will likely be deemed unfit to serve as a primary
custodian. In practical terms, the other parent will almost certainly gain primary
conservatorship, meaning the child will reside primarily with the responsible parent and that
parent will have the exclusive right to make medical decisions. The neglectful parent’s
visitation may be curtailed or supervised to ensure the child’s safety. Courts have a duty to
protect the child’s welfare; thus, even if a divorce is initially filed as “no-fault,” evidence of
one parent’s medical neglect will shift the case to focus on protecting the child. This could
result in emergency temporary orders during the case, giving one parent immediate custody
pending final orders. Ultimately, the possession schedule could be adjusted so that the
neglectful parent has less time (or only daytime visits) if the court fears the child’s health
might be compromised in their care. As for financial judgments, if one parent’s neglect led
to significant medical costs, the court may take that into account. For example, if due to
neglect a child needed hospitalization, a judge could order the neglectful parent to cover
those bills or reimburse the other parent (this might be done through an unequal division of
any remaining community property or via child support adjustments). Also, a parent who
loses custody due to neglect will typically be ordered to pay child support to the other
parent, which ensures the custodial parent can better provide for the child’s needs (including
medical care). In extreme scenarios where parental rights are terminated for neglect, the
parent would no longer have custody or visitation and would also lose standing to claim any
rights in the divorce regarding the child (though they may still be ordered to pay past due
support or certain costs). Regarding the divorce settlement (property division), child-
related misconduct isn’t a listed factor for property splits as adultery or fraud is. However, if
the neglect caused economic loss (like medical expenses), the court could indirectly address
it. For instance, the court might decide not to award a neglectful parent a house or asset that
would otherwise have been split, in order to ensure the child’s residence with the other
parent is secure (especially if that asset is needed to raise the child). In sum, medical neglect
predominantly affects custody and parental rights rather than serving as a monetary
penalty, but it can have financial implications insofar as ensuring resources for the child’s
care are allocated to the responsible parent.

Finally, it’s worth noting that Texas law does have a narrow exception for certain cases of
medical decisions: if a parent withholds specific treatment due to a legitimately held
religious belief, CPS may not consider it neglect in some circumstances (unless the child’s
life is in danger). But in a divorce, a secular court will still put the child’s health first. As
one Texas attorney put it, “Neg/ecting a child's medical needs certainly could be a basis for
a custody change”.

— divorce courts will act accordingly to protect the child.

5. Perjury in Court Proceedings

Relevant Law: Perjury is lying under oath, and doing so during court proceedings is
especially serious. Texas Penal Code §37.02 defines perjury as making a false statement

. C8 1

under Oatn, Knowing Ine statement 1s Iaise, Wen tne statement 1s requirea or autnorizea to
be made under oath.

Aggravated perjury (Penal Code §37.03) is perjury made “during or in connection with an
official proceeding” and material to that proceeding.

A divorce trial or hearing is an official proceeding, and false testimony about a material fact
(e.g., hiding assets, lying about income or abuse, etc.) would meet this definition. Thus, a
spouse or witness who commits perjury in a divorce court (or in filings/depositions
connected to the case) could be charged with aggravated perjury. To be “material,” the false
statement must be capable of affecting the outcome; trivial lies may not meet that threshold,
but most false statements on substantive issues in divorce (property values, fitness of a
parent, etc.) are material. Notably, even if not prosecuted, lying in court violates court rules
and can lead the judge to impose sanctions or hold the perjurer in contempt. Moreover,
perjury is classified as a crime of moral turpitude, reflecting on one’s honesty and
potentially impacting their credibility in legal proceedings.

Penalties for Perjury: Under Texas law, perjury (not in an official proceeding) is a Class
A misdemeanor, and aggravated perjury (in an official proceeding and material) is a third-
degree felony. Specifically:

e Class A Misdemeanor Perjury: Punishable by up to 1 year in county jail and a fine
up to $4,000. This could apply to false statements under oath that aren’t part of a trial
— for example, lying in a sworn affidavit attached to a motion (if not considered “in
connection with” the proceeding) or lying in a deposition about something arguably
immaterial. In practice, most lies in the context of a divorce case will be considered
connected to an official proceeding, so aggravated perjury is the typical charge.

e Third-Degree Felony (Aggravated Perjury): Punishable by 2 to 10 years in state
prison and a fine up to $10,000. This covers lying under oath in court, at a deposition,
or in a sworn inventory or financial statement filed with the court, provided the
falsehood is material. Each separate materially false statement could theoretically be a
separate count. Besides criminal penalties, being convicted of a felony can have
collateral consequences like loss of certain civil rights and difficulty finding
employment (the stigma of a crime of moral turpitude).

Additionally, Texas judges have the power to punish contempt of court. While usually
contempt is for disobeying court orders, blatant lying to the judge’s face can provoke an
immediate response. There have been instances in Texas family courts where judges, upon
catching someone lying on the stand, halted the proceedings and ordered the person taken
into custody. One law firm recounts a judge telling a witness, “Get off the stand... Sheriff,
take him down and book him. DA, I’m pressing charges for perjury.”’. In that scenario, the
person would be jailed on a contempt/perjury hold and face subsequent indictment for
aggravated perjury. Such dramatic enforcement, though not everyday, underscores that
courts will not tolerate perjury. Short of criminal prosecution, a judge can impose civil
sanctions for litigation misconduct. If a party’s perjury is discovered, the court may order
them to pay the other side’s attorney fees incurred because of the lie (for example, fees for
having to uncover the truth). In extreme cases, Texas courts can even strike a party’s

1 1 ba Ww 1 a f 1 cat * 1

pieaaings or enter a Gerauit Juagment as a sancuon Ior abuse OT tne Juaiclal process (tying in
discovery or court can qualify), though due process usually requires a clear showing of
egregiousness before “death penalty” sanctions are used.

Enforcement and Case Examples: While many instances of perjury in divorce go
unpunished criminally (because it can be hard to prove intent and materiality to the standard
needed for conviction), there are examples of enforcement. Texas prosecutors have charged
individuals for perjury in family court settings. For instance, after a high-conflict divorce
case in Tarrant County around 2000, two witnesses were investigated for eight months and
then indicted for aggravated perjury for false testimony they gave during the proceedings.
Family law attorneys often warn their clients that lying under oath is not only illegal but can
backfire disastrously. A Texas family law blog notes that if you can prove your ex lied under
oath, “he or she could end up paying a big price,” including writing a big check (civil
damages) and facing prison time.

One precedent illustrating civil consequences is Glass v. Glass, 826 S.W.2d 683 (Tex. App.
1992). In that divorce, the husband was found to have lied and obstructed discovery about
assets; the trial court sanctioned him over $50,000 in attorneys’ fees and awarded the wife a
greater share of property. The appellate court upheld hefty sanctions, signaling that perjury
and discovery fraud justified harsh punishment. In Boothe v. Boothe (2023) mentioned
earlier, the wife essentially committed perjury by making false disability claims about the
child in court to obtain child support. The trial court, upon learning the truth, terminated the
improper support and awarded the husband nearly all assets as a consequence.

Although she wasn’t criminally charged (from the record), the civil outcome was severely
against her interest due to that dishonesty. Another example comes from a Dallas County
case (unpublished), where a father lied under oath about his income in a child support
hearing; when the lie was uncovered through bank records, the judge not only recalculated
support with the correct figures but also ordered the father to pay the mother’s attorney fees
and referred the matter to the DA’s office. These examples show that perjury can lead to
both immediate courtroom sanctions and later legal action.

Impact on the Divorce (Settlements, Custody, Financial Judgments): Committing
perjury in a divorce case can be catastrophic to the perjurer’s position. First and foremost, it
destroys the credibility of that party on all issues. Family law cases often hinge on he-
said/she-said situations, especially in custody disputes or when valuing assets that may not
have perfect paper trails. If the court catches one party in a significant lie, the judge is likely
to doubt everything that person says thereafter. This means the lying party will likely lose
contested issues by default of credibility. For example, if a husband lies about an asset’s
existence and is caught, the court may well accept the wife’s valuations or arguments on all
property issues going forward. The perjurer may find the judge rules in favor of the other
spouse’s claims about hidden assets, debt responsibility, etc. In terms of property division,
a spouse proven to have lied about community assets or financial matters is at risk of an
unequal division favoring the other spouse. Not only might the court give the innocent
spouse the asset that was lied about, it could award an extra portion of other assets as a
punitive measure or to cover the innocent spouse’s litigation costs (this is within the court’s
discretion under the “just and right” standard). The lying spouse might also face a judgment

for attorney fees or sanctions, which effectively is a financial award to the other side. In one
Texas case, a wife who concealed information and lied in discovery was ordered to pay over
$100,000 of the husband’s legal fees, drastically affecting her share of the marital estate (the
court simply took that amount out of what she would have received). Thus, perjury can lead
to a financial judgment against the liar.

In child custody matters, honesty is paramount because the court needs to trust a parent’s
testimony regarding the child’s welfare. If a parent is caught perjuring themselves (for
instance, lying about the other parent’s behavior or about their own compliance with court
orders), the court may award custody to the other parent. A classic scenario is when one
parent fabricates allegations (such as false claims of abuse by the other parent) and this is
disproven; family courts do not take false allegations lightly, and the parent who lied could
not only lose credibility but also be deemed to have endangered the child’s relationship with
the other parent by lying. This can result in the lying parent receiving restricted visitation.
Even in less dramatic situations, a parent who lies about, say, their drug use or income in a
custody hearing will likely find the court ruling against them on custody and support issues.
The best interest of the child standard allows the court to consider a parent’s moral
character and ability to foster the child’s welfare. A proven act of perjury by a parent can
indicate poor role-model behavior and an inability to put the child’s interests first (since the
parent was willing to lie and drag the child through a contentious fight on false grounds).
So, perjury can indirectly but powerfully shape custody outcomes — often to the detriment of
the lying parent.

Regarding divorce settlements, if a party is known to have lied, their bargaining power
plummets. The other side will be less inclined to trust any settlement proposals and may
insist on trial or on very favorable terms. Conversely, the innocent spouse, armed with
evidence of the other’s perjury, has leverage — they could threaten to pursue criminal
charges or ask the court for a judgment, pushing the lying party to settle on terms favorable
to the innocent spouse. Many divorce cases settle once one party is caught in a lie, because
that party wants to avoid the risk of the court’s wrath (or further exposure of the lie).

Finally, beyond the immediate case, perjury being a fe/ony means that if charged and
convicted, it could affect a spouse’s future. For example, a spouse convicted of aggravated
perjury might face difficulties in employment, might lose any professional licenses (if they
have a career that requires licensure and a clean record), and even immigration
consequences if not a citizen. While these are outside the scope of the divorce itself, they are
collateral fallout that can indirectly affect the family (e.g., a parent losing a medical license
due to a felony conviction would impact their earning capacity and thus child support, etc.).

In summary, lying under oath in a Texas divorce is exceedingly risky. The law provides
for severe criminal punishment, and even without a criminal case, family judges have tools
to penalize and correct the injustice (through sanctions, property division, custody
decisions). As one Texas lawyer bluntly states: “When it comes to what happens if you lie
under oath in family court, jail time is one of several penalties you may face”, and judges
“won t hesitate” to punish or refer perjury because they will not tolerate people
undermining the integrity of the court.

& Refucina ta Pracecnte a Cacea (Kailure ta Mave RFarward

we ie enedanmens — ev ZB AUUIYESTUEY FF Weve \= COREUARY O©W ATREYU TY 8B We VY COR ME

with the Divorce)

Relevant Law: “Refusing to prosecute” generally refers to a scenario where a party (usually
the petitioner who filed the case) fails to actively pursue their claims or unreasonably delays
the case. In Texas civil procedure, if a case stalls due to inaction by the party who initiated
it, the court may dismiss it for “want of prosecution.” Texas Rules of Civil Procedure Rule
165a governs Dismissal for Want of Prosecution (DWOP). Under Rule 165a, if a party
seeking affirmative relief (like a divorce) does not appear at a hearing or does not diligently
advance the case, the court, after notice, must dismiss the case unless there is good cause
shown for the delay. Courts also have an inherent power to dismiss a case that has been
inactive for an unreasonable time. In a divorce context, this means if one spouse files for
divorce and then “refuses” or fails to take the necessary steps (serving the other spouse,
filing required paperwork, setting hearings, etc.), the judge can place the case on a DWOP
docket. Typically, the court clerk will send notice to the parties that the case will be
dismissed on a certain date if no action is taken.

Each county may have its own timeline (often if no activity for ~6 months or so, a DWOP
notice issues). If the parties don’t respond or cannot show a good reason to keep the case
open, the case will be dismissed without prejudice.

“Refusing to prosecute” could also refer to one party (say the petitioner) simply deciding not
to show up at trial or not presenting their case. In that event, if the petitioner doesn’t appear
at trial, the court can dismiss the case at that time (again for want of prosecution).

If it’s the respondent who is refusing to participate (for example, ignoring the proceedings
entirely), the petitioner can proceed to take a default judgment after proving proper service
and waiting the required time. So, the consequences differ depending on which side “refuses
to prosecute.” Generally, the law doesn’t force someone to go forward with a divorce if they
don’t want to—but it won’t grant the divorce either, leaving the status quo (still married) if
the case is dropped.

Consequences of Failure to Prosecute:

e Dismissal of the Divorce: The immediate consequence is that the divorce petition will
be dismissed. A dismissal for want of prosecution effectively ends the case as if it
never happened, without a final judgment of divorce. As one attorney explained, if
your divorce case was DWOP’'d, then “you did not get divorced.”

avvo.com

The parties remain legally married. This can be a significant outcome—if the goal
was to terminate the marriage, that goal is not achieved, and one would have to start
over with a new filing (or file a motion to reinstate the case within 30 days of
dismissal, per Rule 165a(3)). Dismissal wastes time and money that were already
invested in the suit. Any temporary orders that were in place during the divorce (for
support, custody, etc.) expire when the case is dismissed, potentially leaving matters
in limbo. For example, if temporary child support was being paid, that order is gone
(since it was incident to the now-dismissed case), and the parties would have to seek
new orders in a new proceeding to continue enforcement.

rs ~

e Delay and Added Expense: If one party refuses to move the case, it drags out the
resolution. This could be tactical (to frustrate the other spouse or to avoid an
outcome), but it often backfires. After dismissal, if one spouse still wants a divorce,
they will need to file a new petition (and pay a new filing fee, service fees, etc.).
Essentially the process restarts. Important to note: Texas has a 60-day cooling off
period from filing to divorce, so a dismissal and refiling adds at least that much delay
again. The time and money spent on the initial case (court costs, attorney’s fees) are
wasted. A judge can also assign court costs to the party who failed to prosecute,
requiring them to pay the fees for the other party’s answer or any fees the county
incurred. However, unless there was egregious bad faith, each side typically bears
their own attorney’s fees after a DWOP.

e Sanctions for Bad Faith: \f the refusal to prosecute is part of a pattern of stalling or
abuse, the court might impose sanctions. For instance, if a petitioner files and
dismisses repeatedly to harass the respondent (forcing them to prepare multiple
times), a court could eventually award attorneys’ fees to the respondent or even bar
the petitioner from refiling for some period (via an injunction against vexatious
litigation). Rule 13 of Texas Rules of Civil Procedure and Chapter 10 of the Civil
Practice & Remedies Code allow sanctions for filings made in bad faith or for
purposes of unnecessary delay. “Refusing to prosecute” a case might not in itself
trigger those unless coupled with a frivolous intent.

e /mpact on Relief Sought: If the case is dismissed, obviously none of the requests in
the divorce (property division, custody orders, etc.) are granted. This means the
parties revert to their pre-divorce status. This can actually benefit one party and harm
the other. For example, suppose Wife filed for divorce and was seeking a share of
Husband’s retirement and primary custody of the kids, but she then fails to pursue it.
If the case is dismissed, Wife doesn’t get her share of retirement (the community
property remains undivided and they’re still married). On the flip side, Husband
doesn’t get the marriage terminated either, which may or may not matter to him. If
one spouse wanted out of the marriage promptly (perhaps to remarry), a DWOP
frustrates that. Similarly, any progress toward agreements (say they agreed on some
issues) is lost when the case resets.

Examples: Dismissals for want of prosecution are not uncommon in Texas dockets. A party
might file pro se and then get overwhelmed, or couples reconcile temporarily and let the
case die. For instance, if a divorce case sits idle for 8-12 months with no filings, most courts
will send a notice like: “This case will be set on the dismissal docket on [date] unless
sooner disposed or good cause is shown.”’.

If neither party appears at the DWOP hearing to show good cause, the judge will sign an
order dismissing the case. One Texas blogger noted that DWOP is the court’s way of
“motivating the parties to keep moving toward a resolution” and, failing that, “a way for the
judge to clear [inactive cases] off the docket.”’. On the other hand, if the respondent is the
one not participating (basically “refusing to defend” the case), the petitioner can get a
default divorce. For example, in In re Marriage of Smith, the wife filed for divorce and the
husband never answered or appeared. The court allowed the wife to prove up the divorce

unopposed and granted her a default judgment, including custody of the children and a large
share of assets. The husband’s “refusal to participate” meant he forfeited his say in the
outcome. Only if he could show a good reason (like he wasn’t served) could he later
challenge it.

Impact on Divorce/Children/Finances: If one spouse’s refusal to prosecute leads to a
dismissal, the impacts are essentially the absence of a divorce decree. The parties remain
married, which has several implications: (1) Marital Status and Property — Because
they’re still married, community property continues to accrue. This could be detrimental or
beneficial depending on perspective. If the spouses stay separated in fact but not on paper,
any income either earns is technically still community property; this might set up a more
complicated property division whenever the divorce is re-filed, or could benefit the spouse
who earns less (since they’d have a claim on some of the earner’s ongoing income/assets).
Conversely, it could disadvantage the earner who wanted to cut off community property as
of an earlier date. (2) Child Custody/Support — Without a divorce (or SAPCR order), there
may be no formal custody order or child support in effect. The parents then either continue
any informal arrangement or one parent might file a separate Suit Affecting Parent-Child
Relationship to get orders in place. If one parent was relying on temporary orders for
support or visitation from the now-dismissed divorce, that support can stop. The children
might be left in an unstable situation until a case is refiled. For example, if a mother had
temporary primary custody and the father had visitation under temporary orders, a DWOP
would dissolve those orders, potentially prompting conflict or confusion about visitation
going forward. Courts can preempt this by converting temporary orders into a standing order
upon dismissal (but that requires action which typically doesn’t happen automatically). (3)
Protective Orders/Temporary Injunctions — Often in divorces there are standing mutual
injunctions preventing asset disposal or requiring certain bills be paid. If the divorce is
dismissed, those injunctions end, possibly allowing a vindictive spouse to take financial
actions (like cleaning out a bank account) unless and until a new case is filed and new
orders put in place. So a refusal to prosecute could give an opening for mischief during the

gap.

If the case is refiled, the prior delays might influence the judge’s view of the parties. The
spouse who was diligent may ask the court for a swift timeline the second time around. The
judge might also subconsciously attribute blame for the prior dismissal to the party who
didn’t prosecute and be less sympathetic to them on contested issues. However, the merits of
the case (fault, property, custody) are not legally affected by a DWOP itself — those will be
determined when and if the case is litigated fully.

In terms of legal strategy, if one spouse “refuses to prosecute” by not moving forward, the
other spouse has options: they can file a motion to dismiss for want of prosecution
themselves or simply wait for the court to do it; or more proactively, the respondent spouse
could file a counter-petition for divorce. If a counter-petition is on file, even if the original
petitioner drops out, the case can continue on the counter-petition. In that scenario, the
refusing party might actually end up as a respondent in the other’s case. So one spouse’s
refusal doesn’t always halt the divorce if the other picks up the torch.

To sum up, refusing to prosecute a divorce generally results in no divorce. The legal
conseanence is case dismissal. not nunishment. hunt it can carrv nractical nevative outcomes

SSS P RE AES SES SRS RAR AR eS tet po: Wear manne ae = es ese eres SE FOOT IF 2 OM swe

such as prolonged marriage (when it’s unwanted), additional legal costs, and lack of court
orders to manage finances or custody in the interim. Courts prefer to resolve cases on the
merits, so a genuine lack of prosecution is met with dismissal rather than any criminal
sanction. But if the pattern of delay is abusive, a judge can sanction the dilatory party in the
future proceedings. The best practice is if a party no longer wishes to pursue divorce, they
should nonsuit (voluntarily dismiss) the case, rather than let it languish, so that everyone is
clear on the status. Otherwise, a DWOP will eventually clear it off the docket, and as the
saying goes, “you’re back to square one.”

7. Lying Under Oath (General Perjury in the Context of
Divorce)

This category overlaps with item 5, but covers any instance of lying under oath, whether in
written form or orally, inside or outside the courtroom. In a divorce, apart from courtroom
testimony, parties swear to the truth of many documents: sworn inventories of property,
financial affidavits, depositions, interrogatory answers (which are given under oath), etc.
Any deliberate falsehood in these contexts is perjury. Texas Penal Code §37.02 applies
broadly to false sworn statements required by law.

For example, if a spouse swears in a deposition “I have no other bank accounts” while
hiding an account, that is perjury. If a spouse verifies discovery responses with a notary and
lies in those answers, that is perjury. While not all lies will be caught, the legal standard and
consequences remain as discussed: Class A misdemeanor or felony if in an official
proceeding and material. The difference between item 5 and 7 is mostly one of emphasis;
item 5 dealt with lying in court proceedings (aggravated perjury), whereas here we note that
any oath (even outside the courtroom) carries the same obligation of truth. Texas even has
an Unsworn Declaration law (Civil Practice & Remedies Code Chapter 132) that allows a
written declaration “under penalty of perjury” instead of a notarized affidavit for certain
filings — a false unsworn declaration is treated as perjury as well.

In short, in the divorce process, whenever a person is “under oath,” they are legally required
to tell the truth, and lying is a criminal offense.

Consequences: The consequences discussed in section 5 largely apply here too. To avoid
redundancy, key points to reiterate or add include:

e Criminal Liability: A lie under oath in written discovery or affidavits is typically still
“in connection with” the case, hence potentially aggravated perjury (felony) if
material. If, say, a husband lied in a deposition about an affair, and that fact was
material to a fault-based divorce claim, it’s aggravated perjury. If a wife lied in an
affidavit to obtain a temporary restraining order (for example, falsely claiming the
husband threatened her, to get an order and exclusive use of the house), that written
lie is under oath and material — perjury as well. The punishment range (up to 10 years
in prison for aggravated perjury) remains the same. It’s worth noting that each false
statement can be: a a separate © count of perjury; theoretically a | person who lies multiple

aesee ee Ha (On. 3 Vat t= as “«t...-. . = oon os «34 1 eee Bee

LUINeS COULU Lace INULLIpLe Charges, Wlougn In pracuce PIrOSeCuULors Tg 1UILIp tert OT
use the most clear-cut instance.

e Civil/Procedural Penalties: Lying under oath at any stage can lead to severe
discovery sanctions. Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 215 authorizes judges to sanction
parties for abuse of the discovery process, which includes providing false answers.
Sanctions can include exclusion of evidence (for example, if a husband lied about an
asset, the judge might rule that he cannot later introduce evidence about that asset’s
characterization in his favor), monetary fines, or even striking pleadings. In one case,
a party’s persistent lies in discovery led the court to strike his claims for certain relief,
essentially deciding those issues against him by default. Additionally, if a final
judgment is obtained by fraud (which includes perjury), the wronged party may seek
relief from that judgment. Texas Rule of Civil Procedure 329b(f) and equitable bills of
review allow a final judgment to be set aside for extrinsic fraud. For instance, if after
a divorce is finalized, the wife discovers the husband lied under oath about a bank
account, she can file a post-divorce action to divide that newly found asset (Tex. Fam.
Code §9.003 allows undivided community property to be divided upon later
discovery). The court, seeing that the husband lied, could award the entire value of
that hidden asset to the wife as a remedy. Essentially, the liar might not only face
criminal charges but also lose whatever advantage they sought through the lie.

e Examples: A common example of lying under oath in divorce is undisclosed assets.
If one spouse denies having certain assets under oath and it’s later discovered, judges
often respond harshly. They might award that asset wholly to the other spouse as
punishment. Texas courts have done this with hidden bank accounts, undeclared real
estate, even collections of gold or crypto-currency that were lied about. Another
example is a parent lying about income in a child support context (under oath on a
financial information sheet). If caught, the court can redo the support calculation and
might order retroactive support to recoup what the child lost due to the lie, and order
the lying parent to pay the other’s attorney fees used to uncover the truth. On the flip
side, truthful disclosure is expected: one case saw a wife forget about a small pension
in her name; she didn’t mention it (not intentionally, she genuinely overlooked it). The
husband later found out and accused her of perjury. The court found it was an honest
mistake (no intent to deceive), so she wasn’t penalized. This highlights that intent is
key to perjury — accidental omissions or memory lapses aren’t criminal. However,
proving intent is tricky, so courts often look at circumstantial evidence (size of the
asset, pattern of nondisclosure) to infer whether it was a lie or a mistake

thetxattorneys.com.

Impact on Divorce Outcome: The impact of lying under oath broadly mirrors what was
said for perjury in court. The lying party’s goals in the divorce will likely be thwarted. A
spouse who lies under oath about finances can expect a less favorable financial judgment:
the court might give the innocent spouse a larger share of community property, might order
the liar to debt that otherwise might have been split, or might require them to pay attorney
fees. The rationale is twofold: to do equity (correct the imbalance caused by the lie) and to
deter litigants from lying. As cited earlier, hiding assets and lying about them can result in
forfeiting those assets to the other spouse. One Texas case noted that more important than
the monetary sanction was the loss of credibility the lying spouse suffered in the eyes of the
court.

Once credibility is lost, the court tends to rule in favor of the other spouse’s claims on
ambiguous issues. For child-related matters, a parent who lies (be it about the other parent
or their own behavior) may lose the court’s trust, which is essential in custody
determinations. A judge needs to believe that a parent will be honest and act in good faith,
especially in joint conservatorship arrangements where parents must cooperate. If one parent
is found to have lied under oath, the judge might conclude that parent will not foster
cooperation or might even lie to the court in the future about compliance with orders. As a
result, the judge could decide that the other parent should have sole decision-making
authority or even primary custody, to ensure the child’s best interests are protected by a
more trustworthy guardian.

In terms of divorce settlements, if one party lies during negotiations (e.g., not disclosing an
asset during mediation which later comes out), any agreement could be invalidated for
fraud. The innocent spouse could reopen the settlement upon discovering the lie. This means
lying under oath can deprive the parties of a stable, final agreement and prolong litigation.

To encapsulate the policy: Texas law and courts strongly discourage and penalize dishonesty
in divorce cases. Each spouse is expected to deal fairly and transparently regarding finances
and children. Lying under oath is not only a crime but also undermines the very basis on
which courts can grant a just divorce. As such, judges often say that a party who lies has
“shot themselves in the foot” — they not only face legal penalties but also damage their own
case. In the end, the offending spouse stands to lose much more in the divorce than they
might have gained had the lie succeeded. Thus, the safest and indeed legally required course
in any divorce is full honesty and compliance with oaths.

Sources:

e Tex. Penal Code §§ 37.02, 37.03 (Perjury and Aggravated Perjury)
versustexas.com
versustexas.com
versustexas.com

e Tex. Penal Code §31.03 (Theft)
texasdefenders.com
; Tex. Fam. Code §7.009 (Fraud on the Community)
meclure-lawgroup.com
; Boothe v. Boothe, No. 10-21-00238-CV, 2023 WL 2147947 (Tex. App.—Waco Feb.
22, 2023) (mem. op.)
caselaw.findlaw.com
caselaw.findlaw.com

e Tex. Fam. Code §6.003 (Adultery ground)
divorcenet.com
; Tex. Fam. Code §7.001 (Just and Right division)
divorcenet.com
; Murff v. Murff, 615 S.W.2d 696 (Tex. 1981)
divorcenet.com

; Tex. Fam. Code §8.052(10) (Maintenance factors)
divorcenet.com
; Adultery is not a crime in Texas

divorcenet.com

e Tex. Fam. Code §261.001(4) (Definition of neglect)
codes. findlaw.com
; Tex. Penal Code §22.041(c) (Child endangerment by omission)
codes. findlaw.com
; Tex. Fam. Code §153.002 (Best interest of child standard)
codes. findlaw.com

e The Texas Penal Code on Perjury (penalties)
versustexas.com
; Sisemore Law Firm blog — lying in family court (judge ordering DA referral)
thetxattorneys.com
; Sisemore Law — consequences for perjury (big check and prison)
thetxattorneys.com

Tex. R. Civ. P. 165a (Dismissal for Want of Prosecution)
casetext.com
; Versus Texas — DWOP in divorce explanation
versustexas.com
; Avvo, Does DWOP mean I'm not divorced? (answered by Texas attorney)
avvo.com

e Versus Texas — Perjury overview (affidavits count as perjury)
versustexas.com
; Shapiro Law Firm — hiding assets is illegal, can forfeit asset and pay fees; lose
credibility
theshapirolawfirm.com
; Jeff Anderson Family Law — adultery could lead to 60/40 property split
jeffandersonfamilylaw.com
; DivorceNet by Nolo — adultery impact (Murff, not crime, no custody effect unless
harm)
divorcenet.com
divorcenet.com
; The TX Attorneys (blog) — perjury in divorce, proving lies
thetxattorneys.com

Jan 10, 2025 Tr pag

damen is not your dad m
Me from you, and | will fi

Jan 19, 2025 1227 Pa

DADASOFFROBLOX

Dada are you Orr my.

it 2 202 :

3 = © ‘keep being..be good and tell sissy | miss her too.
=mommy still won't let me talk to you. please call me
“sometime

ar 2, 2025

af.2, 2025

© your whole life i would always play in the snow with
you girls you're doing great with your Spanish. | be
home before you know it. see you next Thursday

Avatar

nl

From: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com @
Subject: FW: Please make the right decision. CL-12105
Date: November 24, 2025 at 10:34 AM
To: Cooper Carter attorneycoopercarter@gmail.com

From: Morgan Myers [mailto:morganmw02@gmail.com]
Sent: Tuesday, March 4, 2025 10:59 PM

To: Cooper Carter

Subject: Fwd: Please make the right decision. CL-12105

---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: FUDSTOP <chuckdustin12@gmail.com>
Date: Tue, Mar 4, 2025 at 10:50 PM

Subject: Please make the right decision.

To: Morgan Wilson <morganmw02(@gmail.com>
Morgan there isn't much time left.

Once charges are pressed I can't go back.

Think about the girls.. that's the key.

I've said this since day one.

These judges and attorneys will not be able to protect you forever. I've been fighting this
entire time because Mara and Caroline deserve for someone to fight for them.

It would be a lot easier if you just do the right thing.

If you really think what you have done is okay.. then there's no hope and what happens is
what happens.

But I know you're still in there somewhere.

The difference is what im saying is supported by irrefutable evidence.

You can't enforce these orders. My signature isn't on the document that claims I agree.
It doesn't matter if a judge signed it - they're void.

Otherwise you'd be able to enforce it.

Its time to stop.

Once I get confirmation from the police its unenforceable, I will be rightfully restored to my

kids lives and the home which you stole from me.

It doesn't matter if your grandma owns the house. I have tenancy rights. And those don't just
go away because you decide to lock me out illegally.

There is no statute of limitation for extrinsic fraud Morgan.

Whether it takes 1, 2, 3, 5 or ten years.. nothing changes.. except the real monetary damages
that are ongoing because of this.

Its upwards of $106,400 as of today that could've gone towards the kids colleges.. and new
residence for me that's NEARBY..

but you chose another man.. well before this divorce announcement.. but God works in
mysterious ways..and the circumstances make it impossible for you to get away with this.

And now you're telling our children he's your boyfriend while we are still married.
Telling them were divorced yet we haven't even started.
Throwing away my things as if I didn't take an inventory.

If youre really betting on the judiciary being able to shield you and your attorney being able
to sidestep the rules in order to give you a divorce.. it won't happen.

The law is on my side here, and I've done everything i can to ensure justice is served and our
children are protected long term.

If you let this go to the point where I have to press charges.. I'm going to do it Morgan.. as
much as it'll hurt me.. I've tried to give you every possible alternative avenue.

Don't forget that.

10:32 Av @ & il @ « RG XFS wll 57%

€ Vv 2% _ igapd.evidence.ccom <

Watauga Police Dept. Evidence
Submission Portal

Your files have been received

IT O

€  +1(833) 371-1628

Poday siz} pm

trequests evidence

from you for the Watauga Police
Dept.. Click this link to view your
request and submit evidence:

https: //wataugapd. evidence.com

This link is only valid for 30 days.

Contact the Watauga Police Dept.

with ID
questions.

X



ull 57% mw

igapd.evidence.com < :

Watauga Police Dept. Evidence
Submission Portal

Your files have been received

¢€  +1(833) 371-1628 &

_ requests evidence

M you for the Watauga Police
Dept.. Click this link to view your
request and submit evidence:
https: /wataugapd. evidence.com

This link is only valid for 30 days.

Contact the Watauga Police Dept.

with ID: € »if you have
questions.

Thank you SO much os your

ee mds 7

8:46 : ol 56+ &&

> onare

ry

4B Charlie Myers

lf you Know Damen Kazlauskas or Debbie Price, here's
something worth noting.

Between October 2022 and December 2023:
Damen Kazlauskas exchanged over 6,500 messages.

Debbie Price? Over 16,500 messages in one year—more
than all other contacts combined.

When you break down the timestamps, it's every single
day, all throughout the day, since October 2022.

Yet, this was dismissed as "just emotional support."
Now, after a year of silence, these same people are
suddenly around my kids who have been left without a

father.

The data speaks for itself, which explains the silence.

Be careful who your spouse hangs out with.

Kei

roxie

=charie

sérena
jan

madelyn

From: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com
Subject: FW: Dude what are you doing.. CL-12105
Date: November 24, 2025 at 10:31 AM
To: Cooper Carter attorneycoopercarter@gmail.com

From: Morgan Myers [mailto:morganmw02@gmail.com]
Sent: Friday, March 14, 2025 7:08 AM

To: Cooper Carter

Subject: Fwd: Dude what are you doing.. CL-12105

n--------- Forwarded message ---------

From: FUDSTOP <chuckdustin!2(@gmail.com>
Date: Fri, Mar 14, 2025 at 6:54 AM

Subject: Dude what are you doing..

To: Morgan Wilson <morganmw02(@gmail.com>
Bro..

Why are you dragging on the inevitable?

This case is so retarded.

I don't wanna be married to you for ten years.. its a big milestone that should be celebrated..
and maras bday.

You would've gotten away with all of this if it hadn't been for the same drive that kept me
gunning for what I thought was my family while you were running around behind my back..

But even then I'm not even mad at you and I don't blame you. I wasn't a good husband and i
realize it now.. but our marriage wasn't all bad and you know it.

Things happen. People influence us.

You've let people influence you this entire time.

First debbie.. then Damen.. then Dan.. and then your attorney.

You left me for dead and I had to play the long game. Thank God your attorney is awful.
Its all good Morgan. Once this is fixed THEN we can finally start getting divorced.
Gonna take a lot longer now.. wish you would've just listened to me in the beginning.

Mara barely passed third grade.

I'm not okay with this.

I saw the lunch you packed for Mara at the field trip. Parts of the old you are showing again.
I like it.

I don't have the heart to press charges against you.

I couldn't do it to you.. or the kids despite what happened.

Ill just keep doing what I must do.

Tell the girls I love and miss them if you can..

From: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com
Subject: FW: S.B. 718 CL-12105
Date: November 24, 2025 at 10:30 AM
To: Cooper Carter attorneycoopercarter@gmail.com

From: Morgan Myers [mailto:morganmw02@gmail.com]
Sent: Saturday, March 15, 2025 2:19 PM

To: Cooper Carter

Subject: Fwd: S.B. 718 CL-12105

woo------- Forwarded message ---------

From: FUDSTOP <chuckdustin12(@gmail.com>
Date: Sat, Mar 15, 2025 at 12:17 PM

Subject: S.B. 718

To: Morgan Wilson <morganmw02(@gmail.com>

S.B. 718's Purpose:

This bill seeks to protect parents who are unfairly targeted with false allegations of neglect
during child custody disputes.

Remedy for False Accusations:

If a parent is found to have been falsely accused of neglect, the bill mandates that judges
grant the parent the custody time they missed as a result of those false allegations.

Focus on Justice:

The bill aims to provide a remedy for parents who have been unjustly deprived of their time
with their children due to false claims.

Proactive Prevention:

S.B. 718 not only seeks to address past injustices but also aims to prevent similar situations
from occurring in the future by reinforcing the importance of accurate information in child
custody matters.

Texas Senate Research Center:

You can find more information about S.B. 718 on the Texas Senate Research Center
website.

Every day you take from me now is a day you lose later.

Keep that in mind.

From: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com
Subject: FW: Initiation of Suit CL-12105
Date: November 24, 2025 at 10:29 AM
To: Cooper Carter attorneycoopercarter@gmail.com

From: Morgan Myers [mailto:morganmw02@gmail.com]
Sent: Sunday, March 16, 2025 11:09 AM

To: Cooper Carter

Subject: Fwd: Initiation of Suit CL-12105

w--------- Forwarded message ---------

From: FUDSTOP <chuckdustin!2(@gmail.com>
Date: Sun, Mar 16, 2025 at 7:14 AM

Subject: Initiation of Suit

To: Morgan Wilson <morganmw02(@gmail.com>

Morgan,

I will be representing Mara and Caroline as next friend of the court in upcoming
proceedings.

I've filed my IFP and served you a copy. You'll get receipt when the case is opened. It's a
SAPCR suit.

Given that the current orders have no legal effect, Mara and Caroline have no legal
guardian. Rule 44 of Tex. R. CIV. P. Permits me to represent them when there are no legally
binding court orders and no legally appointed managing conservators of the children in
litigation.

Therefore, they have no legal guardian, and I will be seeking joint managing
conservatorship appointing me as the primary conservator determining the residence of the
children, and will be seeking 50/50 time.

Theres only one caveat. Due to the fact I've been illegally locked out of my home since
March 6th, 2024, and given that they have had no legal guardian since then - I will be
invoking the senate bill discussed in my prior email to reclaim the lost custody time.

I will divide the lost days up in a way that allows the kids to see both of us on a continuous
basis in accordance with Texas state Policy.

Once the case is initiated- if Cooper plans to represent you, she will need to file a Notice of
Appearance.

I'm going to ask for a preliminary injunction and temporary restraining order to prevent any
disturbance of the kids status quo and to allow myself enough time to rebuild what has been

destroyed.

Any further correspondence will come through the electronic filing manager pursuant to
Tex. R. Civ. P.

Best,

Charlie

From: Cooper Carter coopercarter@majadmin.com
Subject: FW: Case has been filed. CL-12105
Date: November 24, 2025 at 10:28 AM
To: Cooper Carter attorneycoopercarter@gmail.com

From: Morgan Myers [mailto: morganmw02@gmail.com]
Sent: Tuesday, March 18, 2025 6:05 PM

To: Cooper Carter

Subject: Fwd: Case has been filed. CL-12105

---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: FUDSTOP <chuckdustin!2@gmail.com>
Date: Tue, Mar 18, 2025 at 5:38 PM

Subject: Case has been filed.
To: Morgan Wilson <morganmw02@gmail.com>
New case has been filed.

You should be served by US Marshall hopefully soon.

Sorry it had to be that way but I didn't really have any other options since you are avoiding
me at all costs.

Unbelievable that you're acting this way.. I don't hate you. I just want to work together for
the kids.

I didn't do anything to deserve any of this.. to be stripped of my stability.
We could've gotten divorced and been moved on by now..
But now you're gonna have to answer for all of this..

$100k in damages is no joke Morgan.

I wish you'd let the girls call me. I miss them.