NO. 322 -744263 -23 
IN THE 322ND DISTRICT COURT OF TARRANT COUNTY , TEXAS  
 
 
TO THE HONORABLE JAMES MUNFORD OF THE 322ND DISTRICT 
COURT OF TARRANT COUNTY, TEXAS:  
Discovery Control Plan 
1. Pursuant to Rule 190 of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure, discovery is intended to  
be conducted in this suit under Level 2.  
Objection to Associate Judge  
2. CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, Counter -petitioner, objects to an associate judge  
hearing a trial on the merits or presiding at a jury trial due to conflict of interest with the 
opposing counsel  in this case . 
Nature of the Suit  
3. This suit is brought by CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS, Counter -petitioner, against  
MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS, Counter -respondent, seeking dissolution of their marriage and  
resolution of issues affecting the parent -child relationship. This suit is also brought against the 
following responsible third parties:  Morgan Michelle Myers,   
  
Petitioner,   
  
                 v. 
 SECOND AMENDED 
COUNTERPETITION FOR DIVORCE  
 
Charles Dustin Myers,   
Respondent   
  
2024 -07-05  322-744263-23FILED
TARRANT COUNTY
7/5/2024 10:12 AM
THOMAS A. WILDER
DISTRICT CLERK

i. Daniel Kenneth Branthoover –  For impersonation of an attorney, fraud, 
conversion, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and civil 
conspiracy, as well as monetary damages.  
ii. Margie Evonne Wilson –  For civil conspiracy.  
 
Fraud 
4. The Counter -petitioner asserts a claim for fraud against the Counter -respondent and 
Daniel Kenneth Branthoover. The fraudulent actions include the filing of false court documents 
alleging family violence  which lead to the disruption of the Counter -petitioner’s relationship 
with his Children . These actions were intended to deceive the court and provide the Counter -
respondent with an advantage  property division . The Counter -respondent also filed suit under 
affidavit of inability to pay  despite just transferring money to herself.   
5. The Counter -petitioner asserts a claim for civil conspiracy against Margie Evonne 
Wilson , who filed for eviction  citing two concurrent lawsuits that had not yet been filed as the 
alleged lease violation. The Counter -petitioner prevailed in this suit on January 17th, 2024,  in the 
Justice of the Peace Precinct 1.  
Impersonation of an Attorney  
 6. The Counter -petitioner asserts a claim against Daniel Kenneth Branthoover for 
impersonation of an attorney, where he first  admittedly  influenced the divorce paperwork and 
then proceeded to reference the Counter -respondent as his client once the divorce had been filed 
with the Court. Daniel Branthoover also assisted the Counter -respondent in requesting discovery.  
Conversion

7. The Counter -petitioner asserts a claim against the Counter -respondent and Daniel 
Kenneth Branthoover for conversion of community property amounting to $1,576 on December 
15th, 2023.  
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress  
8. The Counter -petitioner asserts a claim against the Counter -respondent, Daniel Kenneth 
Branthoover, and Margie Evonne Wilson for intentional infliction of emotional distress , where 
each played a role in the planning, meeting, and  filing of three concurrent lawsuits for the sole 
intention of having the Counter -petitioner removed from the residency and interfering with his 
constitutional rights of the care, control, and custody of his Children.  
Civil Conspiracy  
9. The Counter -petitioner asserts a claim against the Counter -respondent, Daniel Kenneth 
Branthoover, and Margie Evonne Wilson for civil conspiracy, where a meeting of the minds occurred between both the Counter -respondent and Margie Evonne Wilson on Decem ber 13
th, 
2023, and the Counter -respondent and Daniel Kenneth Branthoover between  on December 14th, 
2023,  and December 17th, 2023, with the sole intent to deprive the Counter -petitioner of his 
constitutional rights , access to the residency, and custody of his Children.  
10. The Counter -petitioner requests that the court, under its discretion provided by Rule 
39(a)(1) of the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure, consider the involvement of Debbie M. Price and Damen Kazlauskas  after a hearing on the merits . 
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS’s Information 
11. The last three numbers of CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS's Texas driver’s license  
number  is 608. The last three numbers of CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS's Social Security  
number is 963.

Service of Citation  
12. Service of citation is requested on Daniel Kenneth Branthoover, whose last known 
address is 3100 Copan Ct, Yukon, OK 73099 . 
13. Service of citation is requested on Margie Evonne Wilson, who resides at 6640 Anne 
Court, Watauga, TX 76148.  
Divorce Jurisdiction  
14. MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS and CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS have been  
domiciliary of this state for the preceding six -month period. MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS  
has been a resident of Tarrant County for the preceding ninety- day period. CHARLES DUSTIN  
MYERS has been a resident of Tarrant County for the preceding ninety- day period.  
15. DANIEL BRANTHOOVER, who has relevant involvement in the matters of this 
case, is a resident of Yukon, Oklahoma. Texas courts have jurisdiction over DANIEL 
BRANTHOOVER due to his substantial and purposeful actions directed towards residents of Texas, which are dir ectly related to the issues in this case  and satisfy the sufficient minimum 
contacts with Texas  to exercise jurisdiction.  
16. MARGIE WILSON, who has relevant involvement in the matters of this case, has 
been a domiciliary of this state for the preceding six -month period. MARGIE WILSON was  a 
resident of Tarrant County for the preceding ninety -day period.  
Dates of Marriage  and Separation 
17. MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS and CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS married on or

about June 20, 2015, in Watauga, Texas and stopped living together on January 16th, 2024.  
Grounds for Divorce  
18. The marriage has become insupportable because of discord or a conflict of  
personalities between MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS and CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS that  
destroys the legitimate ends of the marriage relationship and prevents any reasonable expectation 
of reconciliation.  
Children of the Marriage  
 
19. MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS and CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS are parents of 
the following children born or adopted of this marriage who are under 18 years of age or who are  
otherwise entitled to support as provided by Chapter 154 of the Texas Family Code:  
Name: MARA EVONNE MYERS  
Gender: Female 
SSN (last 3): XXX  
Birth Date: 06/20/2016  
Home State: Texas  
 Name: CAROLINE ROSE MYERS  
Gender: Female 
SSN (last 3): XXX  
Birth Date: 04/12/2018  
Home State: Texas  
 
Continuing Jurisdiction 
20. No court has continuing jurisdiction of the suit affecting the parent -child  
relationship.  
Priority  
 21. CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS raises a question of jurisdictional existence regarding  
 
personal jurisdiction for the significant decisions made on January 16
th, 2024.

No Court -Ordered Relationships  
22. There are no court -ordered relationships for the children of this suit.  
UCCJEA Statement  
23. Each party in this suit resides in Texas. However, because the Counter -petitioner is 
requesting the court to serve Daniel  Branthoover, who resides in Oklahoma, the information 
required under Section 152.209 of the Texas Family Code is applicable.  
24. The information required under Section 152.209 of the Texas Family Code, including 
the child's present address or whereabouts, the places where the child has lived during the last 
five years, and the names and present addresses of the persons with whom the  child has lived 
during that period can be discerned from sworn and certified appendix filed with the Second 
Court of Appeals and the Supreme Court of Texas . 
25. The Counter -petitioner acknowledges the continuing duty to inform the court of any 
proceeding in this or any other state that could affect the current proceeding. Currently, the case is pending a decision from the Supreme Court of Texas regarding a Petition for Review / Mandamus. Case No. 24 -0395 
Children’s Property  
26. CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS states that there is no property of value owned or  
possessed by the children the subject of the suit.  
No Protective Order  
27. No protective order under Title 4 of the Texas Family Code or order for emergency 
protection under Article 17.292 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure is currently in effect in regard to a party to this suit or a child of a party to this suit, and no applications for such orders are pending before the Court.

28. An ex -parte temporary order of protection was requested on December 14th, 2023,  by 
the Counter -respondent,  which was denied.  
29. The Counter -petitioner was required to show cause as to why a Protective Order 
should not be issued against him on January 16th, 202 4, where his parental rights were 
temporarily terminated prior to any hearing  and without a reporter’s record, a direct violation of 
his 14th Amendment rights under the United States Constitution to the care, custody, and control 
of his children and his right to property .  
Appointment of Joint Managing Conservators  
30. It is in the best interest of the children that CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS and  
MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS be appointed as joint managing conservators of the children.  
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS petitions the Court to appoint CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS and  
MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS as joint managing conservators of MARA EVONNE MYERS  
and CAROLINE ROSE MYERS with all the rights and duties of a parent appointed as a  
conservator of a child.  
Primary Residence Designation  
31. CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS petitions this Court to designate him the conservator  
who has the exclusive right to determine the primary residence of the children within Tarrant and  
contiguous counties, Texas.  
Property of the Parties  
Division of Marital Estate  
32. CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS Petitions the court to divide the community estate 
where he may transition out of the home given his integral role in his Children’s daily lives . He

requests a transition period be set equal to the number  of days lapsed since the Original Petition 
for Divorce was served to him, which was on December 27th, 2023.   
33. The current division is not in the best interest of the children, the Counter -respondent, 
or Margie Wils on. The Counter -petitioner requests an equitable division of community property 
after notice and hearing regarding any monthly expenses regarding vehicles acquired during the 
marriage.  
Dismissal for Want of Prosecution 
34. Given the fatal error in the Counter -respondent’s Original Petition, the court should 
consider exercis ing its discretio n sua  sponte under Section 160.635  of the Texas Family Code 
and dismiss the case for Want of Prosecution and proceed with this Counter -petition . 
Constitutional Restoration and Best Interest of the Child 
 35. Restore the Counter -petitioner’s constitutional parental rights to the care, custody, 
and  control of his Children under the 14th Amendment of the United States Constitution and 
restore his right to property and to perform his normal business occupation.  
 36. By order of this court, order the Counter -petitioner’s immediate re -entry to his home 
so that the transitionary period may begin and vacate the custodial arrangements that were made 
without any due diligence into the best interests of the Children.  
Injunctive Relief  
 37. Grant the Counter -petitioner a transition period to establish an alternative residency 
where he may continue to support his Children financially and emotionally for no less than the 
equal number of days lapsed since service of the Original Petition for D ivorce on December 
27th, 2023, to provide the Children for a smooth transitionary period that serves their best 
interests.

Temporary Restraining Order 
 38. Under Section 6.502 of the Texas Family Code, grant the Counter -petitioner a 
temporary injunction for the preservation of the  property and protection of the parties as deemed 
necessary and  equitable and including an order  to: 
i. Require the production of bank statements from Daniel Branthoover, 
Margie Wilson, and Morgan Myers for the sole month of December 2023 relevant 
to court -related expenses and transfers  of funds.  
ii. Require the production of Daniel Branthoover’s PayPal transaction 
history between December 14th, 2023, and December 22nd, 2023.  
iii. Prohibit Damen Kazlauskas, Debbie M. Price, and Daniel Branthoover 
from having any contact with the children while the case is pending to safeguard 
their stability and to serve their best interests . 
iv. Prevent harassment from Margie Wilson and from performing any acts 
that would jeopardize the stability of the Children during the transitionary period.  
Other Temporary Orders  
 39. Grant the Counter -petitioner sole use of the residency while the case is pending, 
which also satisfies Texas Family Code Section 6.502(a)(8) and is in the best interest of the Children.  
Temporary Orders Regarding Children  
40. CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS petitions this Court, after notice and hearing, to render 
temporary orders including, but not limited to, the following:  
a. appointing CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS and MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS as  
temporary joint managing conservators of the children;

b. designating CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS as the conservator who has the temporary  
exclusive right to determine the primary residence of MARA EVONNE MYERS and 
CAROLINE ROSE MYERS; and  
c. restricting the area within which the children’s primary residence shall be maintained  
to Tarrant and contiguous counties, Texas.  
Prayer 
 
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS prays the Court to grant a divorce and all other relief  
requested in this Counterpetition.  
CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS prays that this Court immediately grant a temporary  
restraining order restraining MORGAN MICHELLE MYERS, DANIEL BRANTHOOVER, MARGIE WILSON in conformity with the allegations  of this Counterpetition, from the acts set 
forth above, and that, upon notice and hearing, this  temporary restraining order be made a 
temporary injunction  that shall serve the best interests of the Children . 
 CHARLES DUSTIN MYERS prays that this Court serve the additional parties named to 
this suit.   
 Respectfully submitted,  
 
   /s/ Charles Dustin Myers  
   Charles Dustin Myers  
   Chuckdustin12@gmail.com  
   817-507-6562

Certificate of Service 
 
I certify that a true copy of this document was served in accordance with Rule 21a of the  
Texas Rules of Civil Procedure on the following on July 5th, 2024  
Morgan Michelle Myers by electronic filing manager at morganmw02@gmail.com . 
Cooper L. Carter by electronic filing manager at coopercarter@majadmin.com   
   /s/ Charles Dustin Myers  
   Charles Dustin Myers  
   Chuckdustin12@gmail.com  
   817-507-6562

Automated Certificate of eService
This automated certificate of service was created by the efiling system.
The filer served this document via email generated by the efiling system
on the date and to the persons listed below. The rules governing
certificates of service have not changed. Filers must still provide a
certificate of service that complies with all applicable rules.
Envelope ID: 89507709
Filing Code Description: Amended Filing
Filing Description: Second Amended Counterpetition for Divorce
Status as of 7/5/2024 10:32 AM CST
Associated Case Party: MORGANMICHELLEMYERS
Name
MORGAN MICHELLEMYERS
Cooper L.CarterBarNumber Email
morganmw02@gmail.com
coopercarter@majadmin.comTimestampSubmitted
7/5/2024 10:12:38 AM
7/5/2024 10:12:38 AMStatus
SENT
SENT
Associated Case Party: CHARLESDUSTINMYERS
Name
CHARLES MYERSBarNumber Email
chuckdustin12@gmail.comTimestampSubmitted
7/5/2024 10:12:38 AMStatus
SENT
Associated Case Party: ATTORNEY GENERAL OF TEXAS
Name
HOLLY HAYESBarNumber Email
csd-filer-914@texasattorneygeneral.govTimestampSubmitted
7/5/2024 10:12:38 AMStatus
SENT